<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<!-- set title -->
		<title>about - Grimms' Fairy Tales</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css" />
		<link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/jpg" href="red-riding-hood.png" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
		<main>
			<h1>our project </h1>
			<div class="textarea">
				<!-- textarea style -->
				<h3>project overview</h3>
				<p>The Grimms&#8217; Fairy Tales were published in 1812 contained 86 tales, which
					were to pay tribute to the German culture. The goal for these stories was not
					for them to become bedtime stories. During the early 1800s, the Napoleonic Wars
					inspired them to write and share these stores to display and preserve their
					heritage of their country. The Grimm Brothers, Jacob (1785-1863) and Wilhem
					(1786-1859) Grimm were born into a fairly wealthy family, until their father
					died in 1796. After this, they were forced to pave their own path. The brothers
					attended the University of Marburg and were to study law and continue their
					civic duty, like their father, but their love for language and country overtook
					their interests. The tales have since been translated from German to English.
					The German Tales that have been explored here are the orginial 1812 versions, and the
					equivalent English Tales that are from D. L. Ashliman, which were
					translated from 1998-2020. The scope of this project is to compare the original
					German Tales to the translated English version. We are focusing on the female
					characters to determine these comparisons. A major distinction between these
					versions is the difference in time period. This leads us to questions,
					such as how are women portrayed differently, if they are? Our analysis of these
					tales have lead us to better understand how time and culture is a factor in
					these versions of the Grimms&#8217; Fairy Tales. </p>
			</div>
			<div class="textarea">
				<!-- textarea style -->
				<h3>sources</h3>
				<h4>fairy tale texts:</h4>
				<ul>
					<li>https://sites.pitt.edu/~dash/grimm.html</li>
				</ul>

				<h4>biographical information:</h4>
				<ul>
					<li>https://www.nationalgeographic.co.uk/history-and-civilisation/2019/09/brothers-grimm-fairy-tales-were-never-meant-kids</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</main>
		<!--#include virtual="footer.xhtml" -->
	</body>
</html>
