<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<!-- set title -->
		<title>conclusion - Grimms' Fairy Tales</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css" />
		<link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/jpg" href="red-riding-hood.png" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
		<main>
			<h1>conclusions</h1>
			<div class="textarea">
				<!-- textarea style -->
				<h3>main conclusion</h3>
				<p>Women in translation is a well versed and forever applicable to society. This
					project is proof of concept on how women are percieved, not only through the
					eyes of the Grimms' brothers, but in the world today. The translation for
					English to German is immensely different in how it is written. There is much
					less dialogue than the English translation. The perceptions of positive,
					neutral, and negative conversations differ between characters from one story to
					the next. Some of these differences could be due to various ways of completing
					markup, but for example, the German version of Little Snow White seems to be
					simplified compared to the English version. There only seems to be one queen in
					the tale, but the English version includes a second. It is possible the the
					English versions may give additional background, but then clearly the
					translation is also an adapted version.</p>
				<p>The types of women characters, generally, are as follows:</p>
				<p>Birth mothers, who are generally loving towards there children</p>
				<p>Stepmothers, who tend to be loving towards there own children, but "evil" towards
					their stepchildren</p>
				<p>Witches, who tend to come across as nuturing towards young children, but do so to
					manipulate them</p>
				<p>Daughters, who tend to be caring and driven in their tasks</p>
				<p>Stepdaughters, who tend to be rude to the step siblings, spoiled, and lazy</p>
				<p>Overall, the mothers and daughters seem to be "good", while the stepmothers,
					stepdaughters, and witches seem to be "evil".</p>
			</div>
			<div class="textarea">
				<!-- textarea style -->
				<h3>other considerations</h3>
				<p>This project is a create way to continue our research and continue to develop
					digital humanity skills. As a group, if we were to start this again and had much
					more time, we would have more carefully deciphered our xml markup. It is clear
					to us now that this markup rules our results. We would have read through the the
					tales more delibrately, matched our references for characters and other
					elements, as well as breaking up tasks to further focus our analysis on acts or
					dialogue. With the possible continuation of this project, it is possible for us
					to dive deeper in both the acts and dialogue. </p>
			</div>
		</main>
		<!--#include virtual="footer.xhtml" -->
	</body>
</html>
