<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <!-- set title -->
        <title>corpus - Grimms' Fairy Tales</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css" />
        <link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/jpg" href="red-riding-hood.png" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
        <main>
            <!--#include virtual="storynav.xhtml" -->
            <h1>corpus </h1>
            <div class="textarea">
                <!-- textarea style -->
                <p>As a team, we chose ten Grimms&#8217; Fairy Tales to explore that we thought had
                    interesting initial characteristics regarding how women are portrayed in the
                    tales. Of our four team members, the English texts were divided amongst three of
                    us for markup, while the German was handled by one. The markup for each tale was
                    informed by the individual interpretation of the team member charged with its
                    analysis. This ultimately resulted in inconsistencies in the resulting data.</p> 
                    <p>Our tales can be found in the menu above. You can click
                    on any of them and it will take you to a new page where you will see two
                    versions of the story that you chose. One story will be in German and one will
                    be in English. We wanted to show the difference in hostile, benevolent, and
                    neutral interactions when they have to do with the women in the stories.</p>
                <p>When looking at the texts you will see colors:</p>
                <p>Hostile is red.</p>
                <p>Benevolent is indigo.</p>
                <p>Neutral is green.</p>
                <p>Feel free to browse and see how if you can find any differences!</p>
            </div>
        </main>
        <!--#include virtual="footer.xhtml" -->
    </body>
</html>
