<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Frau Holle</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css"/>
      <link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/jpg" href="red-riding-hood.png"/>
   </head>
   <body><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
      <main><!--#include virtual="storynav.xhtml" -->
         <h1>Frau Holle</h1>
         <div class="grid-story">
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-11">English Version</div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-13">German Version</div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-12">
               <p>
                  <span class="ambiguous">A widow had two daughters, the
                     one was beautiful and industrious, the other ugly and lazy.</span>
                  <span class="ambiguous">She greatly favored the ugly,
                     lazy girl, because she was her own daughter.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">And the other one had to do
                     all the work, and be the Cinderella of the house.</span>
                  </p>
               <p>
                  <span class="hostile">Every day the poor girl had
                     to sit by a well, next to the highway, and spin so much that her fingers
                     bled.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">Now it happened that one day
                     the reel was completely bloody, so she dipped it in the well, to wash it off,
                     but it dropped out of her hand and fell in.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">She cried,
                     ran to her stepmother, and told her of the mishap.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">She scolded
                     her so sharply, and was so merciless that she said,</span>
                  "Since you have let the reel fall
                  in, you must fetch it out again."
                  </p>
               <p><span class="hostile">Then the girl went back to the
                     well, and did not know what to do. Terrified, she jumped into the well to get
                     the reel. She lost her senses.</span><span class="benevolent">And when she awoke and came to herself again, she was in a
                     beautiful meadow where the sun was shining, and there were many thousands of
                     flowers. She walked across this meadow and came to an oven full of bread.</span>
                  <span class="ambiguous">The bread
                     called out</span>, "Oh, take me
                  out. Take me out, or I'll burn. I've been thoroughly baked for a long
                  time."
                  <span class="ambiguous">So she
                     stepped up to it, and with a baker's peel took everything out, one loaf after
                     the other.</span></p>
               <p>
                  <span class="ambiguous">After that she walked
                     further and came to a tree laden with apples.</span>
                  "Shake me. Shake me. We
                  apples are all ripe."
                  <span class="hostile">cried the tree.</span>
                  <span class="ambiguous">So she shook the tree until
                     the apples fell as though it were raining apples. When none were left in the
                     tree, she gathered them into a pile, and then continued on her way.</span>
                  </p>
               <p><span class="ambiguous">Finally she came to a small
                     house.</span>
                  <span class="ambiguous">An old woman was peering out
                     from inside.</span>
                  <span class="ambiguous">She had very large
                     teeth,</span>
                  <span class="hostile">which frightened the girl,
                     </span><span class="ambiguous">and she wanted to
                     run away.</span> But the old woman called out to her,"Don't be afraid, dear child. Stay
                  here with me, and if you do my housework in an orderly fashion, it will go well
                  with you. Only you must take care to make my bed well and shake it diligently
                  until the feathers fly, then it will snow in the world.* I am Frau
                  Holle."
                  </p>
               <p>
                  <span class="ambiguous">Because the
                     old woman spoke so kindly to her, the girl took heart, agreed, and started in
                     her service. The girl took care of everything to Frau Holle's satisfaction and
                     always shook her featherbed vigorously until the feathers flew about like
                     snowflakes. Therefore she had a good life with her: no angry words, and boiled
                     or roast meat every day.</span>
                  </p>
               <p>
                  <span class="hostile">Now after she had been with
                     Frau Holle for a time, she became sad.</span>
                  <span class="ambiguous">At first she did not know
                     what was the matter with her, but at last she determined that it was
                     homesickness.</span>
                  <span class="ambiguous">Even though she was many
                     thousands of times better off here than at home, still she had a yearning to
                     return.</span>
                  <span class="ambiguous">Finally she said to the old woman,</span>
                  "I have such a longing for
                  home, and even though I am very well off here, I cannot stay longer. I must go
                  up again to my own people."
                  </p>
               <p>
                  <span class="ambiguous">Frau Holle said,</span>
                  "I am pleased that you long
                  for your home again, and because you have served me so faithfully, I will take
                  you back myself."
                  <span class="benevolent">With
                     that she took her by the hand and led her to a large gate.</span>
                  </p>
               <p>
                  <span class="benevolent">The gate
                     was opened, and while the girl was standing under it, an immense rain of gold
                     fell, and all the gold stuck to her, so that she was completely covered with
                     it.</span>
                  'This is yours because you
                  have been so industrious,"
                  <span class="benevolent">said
                     Frau Holle, and at the same time she gave her back the reel which had fallen
                     into the well.</span>
                  </p>
               <p>
                  <span class="ambiguous">With that the gate was
                     closed and the girl found herself above on earth, not far from her mother's
                     house.</span>
                  <span class="ambiguous">And as she entered the yard the
                     rooster, sitting on the well, cried:</span>
                  </p>
               <p>
                  Cock-a-doodle-doo, Our golden
                  girl is here anew.
                  </p>
               <p>
                  <span class="ambiguous">Then she went inside to her
                     mother, and as she arrived all covered with gold, she was well received, both by
                     her mother and her sister. The girl told all that had happened to her, and when
                     the mother heard how she had come to the great wealth, she wanted to achieve the
                     same fortune for the other, the ugly and lazy daughter.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">She made her go and sit by the
                     well and spin. And to make her reel bloody, the lazy girl pricked her fingers
                     and shoved her hand into a thorn bush. Then she threw the reel into the well,
                     and jumped in herself.</span>
                  </p>
               <p>
                  <span class="ambiguous">Like the other girl, she too
                     came to the beautiful meadow and walked along the same path.</span>
                  <span class="ambiguous">When she came to
                     the oven, the bread cried again,</span>
                  "Oh, take me out. Take me out, or
                  else I'll burn. I've been thoroughly baked for a long time."
                  </p>
               <p><span class="ambiguous">But the lazy girl
                     answered</span>, "As if I
                  would want to get all dirty," and walked away.</p>
               <p>
                  <span class="hostile">Soon she came to the apple
                     tree. It cried out,</span>
                   "Oh, shake me. Shake me. We
                  apples are all ripe."
                  </p>
               <p>
                  <span class="ambiguous">But she answered,</span>
                  "Oh yes, one could fall on my
                  head,"
                  <span class="ambiguous">and with that she walked
                     on.</span>
                  </p>
               <p>
                  <span class="ambiguous">When she came to Frau Holle's
                     house, she was not afraid, because she had already heard about her large
                     teeth,</span>
                  <span class="ambiguous">and she immediately began to
                     work for her. On the first day she forced herself, was industrious, and obeyed
                     Frau Holle, when she said something to her, because she was thinking about all
                     the gold that she would give her. But on the second day she already began to be
                     lazy, on the third day even more so, and then she didn't even want to get up in
                     the morning. She did not make the bed for Frau Holle, the way she was supposed
                     to, and she did not shake it until the feathers flew.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">Frau Holle soon became tired of
                     this</span>
                  <span class="ambiguous">and
                     dismissed her of her duties.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">This was just what the lazy
                     girl wanted, for she thought that she would now get the rain of gold.</span>
                  </p>
               <p>
                  <span class="ambiguous">Frau
                     Holle led her too to the gate.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">She stood
                     beneath it, but instead of gold, a large kettle full of pitch spilled over
                     her.</span>
                  "That is the reward for your
                  services,"
                  <span class="hostile">said Frau Holle, and closed the
                     gate.</span>
                  </p>
               <p>
                  <span class="hostile">Then the lazy girl went home,
                     entirely covered with pitch.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">As soon as the rooster on the
                     well saw her, he cried out:</span>
                  </p>
               <p>
                  Cock-a-doodle-doo, Our dirty
                  girl is here anew.
                  </p>
               <p>
                  <span class="hostile">And the pitch stuck fast to
                     her, and did not come off as long as she lived.</span>
                  </p>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-14">
               <p>Eine Wittwe hatte zwei Töchter, davon war die eine schön und fleißig,
                  die andere häß- lich und faul. Sie hatte aber die
                  häßliche und faule viel lieber, und die andere mußte alle Ar- beit thun und war
                  recht der Aschenputtel im Haus. Einmal war das Mädchen hingegan-
                  gen, Wasser zu holen, und wie es sich bückte den
                  Eimer aus dem Brunnen zu ziehen, bückte es sich zu tief und
                  fiel hinein. Und als es er- wachte und wieder zu sich selber kam,
                  war es auf einer schönen Wiese, da schien die
                  Sonne und waren viel tausend Blumen. Auf der Wiese gieng es fort und kam zu einem Back- ofen, der war voller Brot; das Brot
                  aber rief: „ach! zieh mich 'raus,
                  zieh mich 'raus, sonst verbrenn' ich, ich bin schon längst
                  ausgebacken!“ da trat es fleißig herzu
                  und holte alles heraus. Darnach ging es weiter und kam
                  zu einem Baum, der hing voll Aepfel und rief ihm zu: „ach! schüttel mich! schüttel mich! wir Aepfel sind
                  allemiteinander reif!“ Da schüttelt' es den Baum, daß die Aepfel fielen, als regenten sie, solang bis
                  keiner mehr oben war, darnach ging es wieder fort.
                  Endlich kam es zu einem klei- nen Haus, daraus guckte eine
                  alte Frau, weil sie aber so große Zähne
                  hatte, ward ihm Angst und es wollte fortlaufen. Die alte Frau aber rief ihm
                  nach: „fürcht dich nicht,
                  liebes Kind, bleib bei mir, wenn du alle Arbeit
                  im Haus ordentlich thun willst, so soll dirs gut gehn: nur mußt du recht darauf Acht geben daß du mein Bett gut machst, und es fleißig aufschüt- telst, daß
                  die Federn fliegen, dann schneit es in der Welt; Darum sagt man in Hessen, wenn
                  es schneit: die Frau Holle macht ihr Bett. Ich bin die
                  Frau Holle.“ Weil die Alte so gut sprach, willigte das Mädchen ein und begab sich in ihren Dienst. Es besorgte auch alles nach ihrer Zufriedenheit und <span class="benevolent">schüt- telte ihr das Bett
                     immer gewaltig auf</span>, dafür hatte es auch ein gut
                  Leben bei ihr, kein böses Wort und alle Tage Gesottenes und
                  Gebrate- nes. Nun war es eine Zeitlang bei der Frau
                  Holle, da ward es traurig in
                  seinem Herzen und ob es hier gleich viel tausendmal besser war, als
                  zu Haus, so hatte es doch ein Ver- langen dahin; endlich sagte
                  es zu ihr: „ich habe den Jammer nach Haus kriegt, und wenn es mir
                  auch noch so gut hier geht, so kann ich doch nicht länger bleiben.“
                  Die Frau Holle sagte: „du hast Recht
                  und weil du mir so treu gedient hast, so will ich
                  dich selbst wieder hin-
                  aufbringen.“ Sie <span class="benevolent">nahm es darauf bei
                     der Hand</span> und <span class="benevolent">führte es vor ein
                     großes Thor.</span> Das ward aufgethan und wie das Mädchen darun- ter stand, fiel ein gewaltiger Goldregen, und alles
                  Gold blieb an ihm hängen, so daß es über und über davon
                  bedeckt war. „Das sollst
                  du haben, weil du so fleißig gewesen bist,“ sprach die Frau
                  Holle. Darauf ward das Thor verschlossen und es war oben auf der Welt, da ging es heim zu seiner Mutter und weil es so mit Gold bedeckt ankam, ward es gut aufge- nommen.</p>
               <p>Als die Mutter hörte, wie es zu dem Reich-
                  thum gekommen, wollte sie der andern schönen und faulen Tochter gern dasselbe Glück verschaf- fen, und sie mußte sich auch in den Brunnen stürzen. Sie erwachte, wie die andere auf der schönen Wiese und ging auf
                  demselben Pfad weiter. Als sie zu dem Backofen
                  gelangte, schrie das Brod wieder: „ach! zieh mich 'raus, zieh mich 'raus, sonst verbrenn ich, ich bin schon
                  längst ausgebacken!“ die Faule aber antworte- te:
                  „da hätt' ich Lust, mich
                  schmutzig zu ma- chen!“ und ging fort. Bald kam sie zu dem Apfelbaum, der rief: „ach! schüttel mich! schüt- tel mich! wir Aepfel sind
                  alle mit einander reif“
                  sie antwortete aber: „du kommst mir recht, es könnt mir einer auf den Kopf
                  fallen!“ ging damit weiter. Als sie vor der Frau
                  Holle Haus kam, fürchtete sie sich nicht, weil
                  sie von ihren großen Zähnen
                  schon gehört hatte, und verdingte sich gleich zu ihr. Am ersten Tag that
                  sie sich Gewalt an und war fleißig und folgte der Frau
                  Holle, wenn sie
                  ihr etwas sagte, denn sie gedachte an das viele Gold, daß
                  sie
                  ihr schenken würde; am zweiten Tag aber fing sie schon an zu faullenzen, am dritten noch mehr, da wollte
                  sie Morgens gar nicht aufstehen, sie
                  <span class="ambiguous">machte auch der Frau
                     Holle das Bett schlecht</span> und <span class="ambiguous">schüttelte es nicht recht</span>, daß die Federn
                  aufflogen. Das ward die Frau Holle bald müd und
                  sagte der Faulen den Dienst auf. Die war es wohl zufrieden und meinte nun werde der Goldregen
                  kommen, die Frau Holle führte sie auch hin zu dem Thor als sie aber darunter stand,
                  ward statt des Golds ein großer Kessel voll Pech ausgeschüttet. „Das ist zur Beloh- nung deiner
                  Dienste“ sagte die Frau Holle und schloß
                  das Thor zu. Da kam die Faule heim, ganz mit
                  Pech bedeckt, und das hat ihr Lebtag nicht wieder
                  abgehen wollen.</p>
            </div>
         </div>
      </main>
      <!--#include virtual="footer.xhtml" --></body>
</html>