<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Hansel and Gretel</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css"/>
      <link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/jpg" href="red-riding-hood.png"/>
   </head>
   <body><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
      <main><!--#include virtual="storynav.xhtml" -->
         <h1>Hansel and Gretel</h1>
         <div class="grid-story">
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-11">English Version</div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-13">German Version</div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-12">
               <p>Next to a great forest there lived a poor woodcutter with his wife and his two children. The boy's name was Hansel and the girl's
                  name was Gretel. He had but little to eat, and once, when a great famine came to the
                  land, he could no longer provide even their daily bread.</p>
               <p>One evening as he was lying in bed worrying about his problems,  he sighed and said to his
                  wife, "What is to become of us? How can we feed our children
                  when we have nothing for ourselves?"</p>
               <p>"Man, do you know what?" answered
                  the woman. "Early tomorrow morning we will take the two children
                  out into the thickest part of the woods, make a fire for them, and give each of
                  them a little piece of bread, then leave them by themselves and go off to our
                  work. They will not find their way back home, and we will be rid of
                  them."</p>
               <p>"No, woman," said the man.
                  "I will not do that. How could I bring myself to abandon my own children alone
                  in the woods? Wild animals would soon come and tear them to
                  pieces."</p>
               <p>"Oh, you fool," she said, "then all four of us will starve. All you can do is
                  to plane the boards for our coffins."
                  <span class="hostile">And she
                     gave him no peace until he agreed.</span></p>
               <p>"But I do feel sorry for
                  the poor children," said the man.</p>
               <p>
                  <span class="hostile">The two children had
                     not been able to fall asleep because of their hunger</span>, and they
                  heard what the stepmother had said to the father.</p>
               <p><span class="hostile">Gretel cried bitter tears and said to Hansel</span>, "It is over with us!"</p>
               <p>"Be quiet, Gretel," said Hansel, "and don't worry. I know what to
                  do."</p>
               <p>And as soon as the adults had
                  fallen asleep,<span class="benevolent"> he got up,</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">pulled on his jacket,</span>
                  <span class="benevolent"> opened the lower door,</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">and crept outside.</span>
                  The moon was shining
                  brightly,and the
                  white pebbles in front of the house were glistening like silver coins.
                  Hansel bent over and filled his
                  jacket pockets with them, as many as would fit</p>
               <p>Then he went back into the
                  house
                  and said, "Don't worry,
                  Gretel. Sleep well. God will not forsake us." Then he went back to
                  bed.</p>
               <p>At
                  daybreak, even before sunrise, the woman came and woke
                  the two children.
                  Get up, you lazybones. We are going
                  into the woods to fetch wood."
                  Then she gave each one a little
                  piece of bread,
                  saying, "Here is something for
                  midday. Don't eat it any sooner, for you'll not get any more."</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">Gretel put
                     the bread under her apron</span>, because Hansel's pockets were full of stones. Then all together they set forth
                  into the woods.
                  After they had walked
                  a little way, Hansel
                  began stopping again and again and looking back toward the house.</p>
               <p>The father said, "Hansel, why are
                  you stopping and looking back? Pay attention now, and don't forget your
                  legs."</p>
               <p>"Oh, father," said Hansel, "I am
                  looking at my white cat that is sitting on the roof and wants to say good-bye to
                  me."</p>
               <p>
                  The woman said, "You fool, that isn't your cat. That's the morning
                  sun shining on the chimney."</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">However, Hansel had not been
                     looking at his cat but instead had been dropping the shiny pebbles from his
                     pocket onto the path.</span></p>
               <p>When they arrived in the middle of
                  the woods, the father
                  said, "You children gather some wood, and I will make a fire so you won't
                  freeze."</p>
               <p>Hansel and Gretel gathered together some twigs, a pile as high as a small
                  mountain</p>
               <p>The twigs were set afire, and when
                  the flames were burning well,
                  the woman said, "Lie down by the fire and rest. We will go into the
                  woods to cut wood. When we are finished, we will come back and get
                  you."</p>
               <p>Hansel and Gretel sat by the fire.
                  When midday came each
                  one ate his little piece of bread.
                  Because they could
                  hear the blows of an ax, they thought that the father was nearby. However,
                  it was not an ax. <span class="hostile">It was a branch
                     that he had tied to a dead tree and that the wind was beating back and
                     forth.</span>
                  After they had sat
                  there a long time,
                  <span class="hostile">their eyes grew weary
                     and closed, and they fell sound sleep.</span></p>
               <p>When they finally
                  awoke, it was dark at night. <span class="hostile">Gretel began to cry</span>
                  and said, "How will we get out of
                  woods?"
                  <span class="benevolent">Hansel
                     comforted her</span>,"Wait a
                  little until the moon comes up, and then we'll find the way."
                  </p>
               <p>After the full moon had come
                  up,
                  <span class="benevolent">Hansel took
                     his little sister by the hand.</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">They followed the
                     pebbles that glistened there like newly minted coins, showing them the
                     way.</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">They walked
                     throughout the entire night, and as morning was breaking, they arrived at the
                     father's house.</span></p>
               <p>They knocked on the
                  door,
                  <span class="hostile">and
                     when the woman opened it and saw that it was Hansel and Gretel</span>, she said, "You wicked children, why did you sleep so long in
                  the woods? We thought that you did not want to come back."</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">But the father was overjoyed
                     when he saw his children once more,</span>
                  for he had not wanted to leave them alone.</p>
               <p>Not long afterward there was once again great need everywhere, <span class="hostile">and one
                     evening the children heard the mother say to the
                     father</span>, "We have again
                  eaten up everything. We have only a half loaf of bread, and then the song will
                  be over. We must get rid of the children. We will take them deeper into the
                  woods, so they will not find their way out. Otherwise there will be no help for
                  us."</p>
               <p><span class="hostile">The man was very
                     disheartened</span>,and he
                  thought, "It would be better to share the last bit with the
                  children."
                  </p>
               <p><span class="hostile">But the woman
                     would not listen to him</span>, <span class="hostile">scolded him,</span>
                  <span class="hostile">and criticized
                     him.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">He who says A must also say
                     B,</span>
                  <span class="hostile">and
                     because he had given in the first time, he had to do so the second time as
                     well.</span></p>
               <p>The children were
                  still awake and had overheard the conversation.
                  When the adults were asleep,
                  Hansel got up again and wanted to gather pebbles as he had done before,
                  <span class="hostile">but the woman had
                     locked the door, and Hansel could not get out.</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">But he comforted his little
                     sister</span>
                  and said, "Don't cry, Gretel. Sleep well. God will help us."</p>
               <p>Early the next morning the woman came and got the
                  children from their beds.
                  <span class="hostile">They received
                     their little pieces of bread, even less than the last time.</span>
                  On the way to the woods, Hansel
                  crumbled his piece in his pocket, then often stood still, and threw crumbs onto
                  the ground.</p>
               <p>"Hansel, why are you always
                  stopping and looking around?" said his father. "Keep walking straight
                  ahead."</p>
               <p>"I can see my pigeon sitting on the
                  roof. It wants to say good-bye to me."</p>
               <p>"Fool," said the woman, "that isn't your pigeon. That's the morning sun shining
                  on the chimney."</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">But little by little Hansel
                     dropped all the crumbs onto the path.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">The
                     woman took them deeper into the woods than they had ever been
                     in their whole lifetime.</span></p>
               <p>Once again a large fire was
                  made, and the mother said, "Sit here, children. If you get tired you can
                  sleep a little. We are going into the woods to cut wood. We will come and get
                  you in the evening when we are finished."</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">When it was
                     midday Gretel shared her bread with Hansel</span>, <span class="benevolent">who had scattered his piece
                     along the path.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">Then they fell asleep, and evening passed, but no one came to get the poor
                     children.</span></p>
               <p><span class="hostile">It was dark at night
                     when they awoke</span>, <span class="benevolent">and Hansel comforted Gretel</span>and said, "Wait, when the moon comes up
                  I will be able to see the crumbs of bread that I scattered, and they will show
                  us the way back home."
                  </p>
               <p>When the moon appeared
                  they got up, <span class="hostile">but they could not find any crumbs,</span>
                  <span class="hostile">for the many
                     thousands of birds that fly about in the woods and in the fields had pecked them
                     up.</span></p>
               <p>Hansel said to Gretel, "We will find our way,"
                  <span class="hostile">but they did not find
                     it.</span></p>
               <p><span class="hostile">They walked through the
                     entire night and the next day from morning until evening, but they did not find
                     their way out of the woods.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">They were terribly
                     hungry,</span>
                  <span class="hostile">for they had eaten only
                     a few small berries that were growing on the ground.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">And because they were
                     so tired that their legs would no longer carry them</span>, <span class="hostile">they lay down under a tree and fell
                     asleep.</span> It was already the third morning since they had left the father's
                  house. <span class="hostile">They started
                     walking again, but managed only to go deeper and deeper into the woods.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">If help did not come
                     soon, they would perish.</span>
                  At midday they saw a little
                  snow-white bird sitting on a branch. It sang so beautifully that they stopped to
                  listen. When it was finished it stretched its wings and flew in front of them.
                  They followed it until they came to a little house. The bird sat on the roof,
                  and when they came closer, they saw that the little house was built entirely
                  from bread with a roof made of cake, and the windows were made of clear
                  sugar.</p>
               <p>"Let's help ourselves to a good
                  meal," said Hansel. "I'll eat a piece of the roof, and Gretel, you eat from the window. That will be
                  sweet."</p>
               <p>Hansel reached up and broke off a
                  little of the roof to see how it tasted,while Gretel stood next to
                  the windowpanes and was nibbling at them.
                  Then a gentle voice called
                  out from inside: </p>
               <p>Nibble, nibble, little mouse,
                  Who is nibbling at my house?</p>
               <p>The children
                  answered:</p>
               <p>The wind, the wind, The
                  heavenly child.</p>
               <p>They continued to eat,
                  without being distracted.
                  <span class="benevolent">Hansel, who very much like the
                     taste of the roof, tore down another large piece,</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">and Gretel poked
                     out an entire round windowpane.</span>
                  Suddenly the door opened,
                  and a woman, as old as the hills and leaning on
                  a crutch, came creeping out.
                  <span class="hostile">Hansel and Gretel were so frightened</span>
                  <span class="hostile"> that they dropped what
                     they were holding in their hands.</span></p>
               <p>But the old woman shook her head and
                  said,"Oh, you dear
                  children, who brought you here? Just come in and stay with me. No harm will come
                  to you."
                  </p>
               <p>She took them by the hand and led them into her
                  house.<span class="benevolent">Then she served
                     them a good meal: milk and pancakes with sugar, apples, and nuts.</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">Afterward she made two
                     nice beds for them, decked in white.</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">Hansel and
                     Gretel went to bed, thinking they were in
                     heaven.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">But the old woman had only pretended to be friendly.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">She was a wicked witch</span>
                  <span class="hostile">who was lying in wait there
                     for children.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">She had built her house of
                     bread only in order to lure them to her,</span>
                  <span class="hostile">and if she captured one, she would kill him, cook him, and eat him; and for her that was
                     a day to celebrate.</span></p>
               <p>Witches have red eyes and cannot see very far, but they have a sense of smell like
                  animals, and know when humans are approaching.</p>
               <p><span class="hostile">When
                     Hansel and Gretel came near to her, she laughed wickedly and spoke
                     scornfully,</span>
                  "Now I have them. They will
                  not get away from me again."</p>
               <p>Early the next morning, before they awoke, she got up, went to their beds, and
                  looked at the two of them lying there so peacefully, with their full red
                  cheeks.
                  "They will be a good
                  mouthful," she mumbled to herself.
                  <span class="hostile">Then
                     she grabbed Hansel with her withered hand and carried him to a little stall, where
                     she locked him behind a cage door.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">Cry as he might, there was no help
                     for him.</span></p>
               <p><span class="hostile">Then
                     she shook Gretel and
                     cried</span>, "Get up,
                  lazybones! Fetch water and cook something good for your brother. He is locked
                  outside in the stall and is to be fattened up. When he is fat I am going to eat
                  him."</p>
               <p><span class="hostile">Gretel began to cry,
                     but it was all for nothing. She had to do what
                     the witch demanded. Now Hansel was given the
                     best things to eat every day, but Gretel received
                     nothing but crayfish shells.</span></p>
               <p><span class="hostile">&gt;Every morning the old woman crept out to the stall and shouted</span>, "Hansel, stick out your finger, so
                  I can feel if you are fat yet."</p>
               <p>But Hansel stuck out a little
                  bone, and the old woman, who had bad eyes and could not
                  see the bone, thought it was Hansel's finger, and she wondered why he didn't get fat.</p>
               <p><span class="hostile">When four weeks had
                     passed and Hansel was still thin, impatience overcame her, and she would wait
                     no longer.</span>
                  "Hey, Gretel!" she shouted to
                  the girl, "Hurry up and fetch some water. Whether
                  Hansel is fat or thin, tomorrow I am going to slaughter him and boil
                  him."</p>
               <p><span class="hostile">Oh, how the poor little sister
                     sobbed as she was forced to carry the water, and how the tears streamed down her
                     cheeks!</span>
                  "Dear God, please help
                  us,"<span class="hostile">she cried.</span> "If only the wild animals had devoured us in
                  the woods, then we would have died together."</p>
               <p>"Save your
                  slobbering,"
                  <span class="hostile">said the old woman.</span> "It doesn't help you at all."</p>
               <p>The next morning Gretel had to get up early, hang up the kettle with water, and
                  make a fire.</p>
               <p>"First we are going to bake,"
                  said the old woman. "I have already made a fire in
                  the oven and kneaded the dough."</p>
               <p><span class="hostile">She pushed poor Gretel
                     outside to the oven, from which fiery flames were leaping.</span>
                  "Climb in," said the
                  witch, "and see if it is hot enough to
                  put the bread in yet."
                  <span class="hostile">And when
                     Gretel was inside, she intended to close the oven, and bake her, and eat her as
                     well.</span></p>
               <p><span class="hostile">But Gretel saw what she had in
                     mind, so she said,</span>"I
                  don't know how to do that. How can I get inside?"
                  </p>
               <p>"Stupid goose," said the
                  old woman."The opening is big enough.
                  See, I myself could get in." <span class="hostile">And she crawled up stuck her head into the oven.</span></p>
               <p><span class="hostile">Then Gretel
                     gave her a shove, causing her to fall in. Then she closed the iron door and
                     secured it with a bar.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">The old woman began to howl
                     frightfully.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">But Gretel ran away, and the
                     godless witch burned up miserably. Gretel ran straight to Hansel, unlocked his
                     stall, and cried</span>, "Hansel, we are saved. The old witch is
                  dead."</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">Then Hansel jumped out, like a
                     bird from its cage when someone opens its door.</span><span class="benevolent">How happy they were!</span><span class="benevolent">They threw their arms
                     around each other's necks, jumped with joy, and kissed one another.</span>
                  Because they now had
                  nothing to fear, they went into the witch's house.
                  In every corner were chests of pearls and precious stones.</p>
               <p>"These are better than pebbles,"
                  said Hansel, filling his pockets.</p>
               <p>Gretel said, "I will take some
                  home with me as well,"
                  and she filled her apron
                  full.</p>
               <p>"But now we must leave," said
                  Hansel, "and get out of these witch-woods."</p>
               <p>After walking a few
                  hours they arrived at a large body of water.
                   "We cannot get across," said
                  Hansel. "I cannot see a walkway or a bridge."</p>
               <p>"There are no boats here,"
                  answered Gretel, "but there is a white duck swimming. If
                  I ask it, it will help us across."</p>
               <p>Then she called out:</p>
               <p>Duckling, duckling,
                  Here stand Gretel and Hansel. Neither a walkway nor a bridge, Take us onto your
                  white back.</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">The
                     duckling came up to them, and Hansel climbed onto it, then asked his little
                     sister to sit down next to him.</span></p>
               <p>"No," answered Gretel. "That would be too heavy for the duckling. It should
                  take us across one at a time."</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">That
                     is what the good animal did, and when they were safely on the other side</span>,
                  <span class="benevolent">and had walked
                     on a little while, the woods grew more and more familiar to them, and finally
                     they saw the father's house in the distance.</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">They began to run, rushed inside, and threw their arms around the father's
                     neck.</span></p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">The man had not had even one happy
                     hour since he had left the children in the woods.</span>
                  However, the woman had died.
                  Gretel shook out her apron, scattering pearls and precious
                  stones around the room,
                  and Hansel added to them by
                  throwing one handful after the other from his pockets.</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">Now all
                     their cares were at an end</span>, <span class="benevolent">and they lived happily together.</span></p>
               <p>My tale is done,A mouse has run.
                  </p>
               <p>And whoever catches
                  it can make for himself from it a large, large fur cap.
                  </p>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-14">
               <p>Vor einem großen Walde wohnte ein ar- mer Holzhacker, der hatte nichts zu beißen und
                  zu brechen, und kaum das tägliche Brod für seine Frau und seine zwei Kinder,
                  Hänsel und Gretel. Einmal konnte er auch das nicht mehr
                  schaffen, und wußte sich nicht zu helfen in seiner Noth. Wie er Abends vor Sorge
                  sich im Bett herumwälzte, da sagte seine Frau zu ihm: „höre Mann, morgen früh nimm die beiden
                  Kinder, gieb jedem noch ein Stückchen Brod, dann führ sie hinaus in den Wald,
                  mitten inne, wo er am dicksten ist, da mach ihnen ein Feuer an, und dann geh weg
                  und laß sie dort, wir kön- nen sie nicht länger ernähren.“
                  „Nein Frau, sagte der Mann, das kann ich nicht über mein Herz
                  bringen, meine eigenen lieben Kinder zu den wilden Thieren zu führen, die sie
                  bald in dem Wald zerreißen würden.“
                  „Wenn du das nicht thust, sprach
                  die Frau, so müssen wir alle miteinander Hungers
                  sterben;“ da ließ sie ihm keine Ruhe, bis er Ja sagte.</p>
               <p>Die zwei Kinder waren auch noch wach von Hunger, und hatten alles gehört, was die
                  Mutter zum Vater gesagt hatte. Gretel dach- te, nun
                  ist es um mich geschehen und fing er- bärmlich an zu weinen, Hänsel aber sprach:
                  „sey still, Gretel, und gräm dich nicht, ich will uns helfen.“
                  Damit stieg er auf, zog sein Röcklein an, machte die Unterthüre auf und schlich
                  hinaus. Da schien der Mond hell und die weißen Kieselsteine glänzten wie lauter Ba-
                  tzen. Hänsel bückte sich und machte sich sein ganz Rocktäschlein voll davon, so viel
                  nur hin- ein wollten, dann ging er zurück ins Haus: „tröste dich, Gretel, und schlaf
                  nur ruhig,“ leg- te sich wieder ins Bett und schlief ein.</p>
               <p>Morgens früh, ehe die Sonne noch aufge- gangen war, kam die Mutter und weckte sie alle beide: „steht auf, ihr Kinder, wir wollen in den Wald gehen, da
                  habt ihr jedes ein Stück- lein Brod, aber haltets zu Rathe und hebts euch für
                  den Mittag auf.“
                  Gretel nahm das Brod unter die Schürze, weil Hänsel die Stei- ne in
                  der Tasche hatte, dann machten sie sich auf den Weg in den Wald hinein. Wie sie ein
                  Weilchen gegangen waren, stand Hänsel still und guckte nach dem Haus zurück, bald
                  darauf wieder und immer wieder. Der Vater sprach: „Hänsel, was guckst du zurück und hältst dich auf, hab
                  Acht und marschir zu.“
                  „Ach, Vater, ich seh nach meinem
                  weißen Kätz- chen, das sitzt oben auf dem Dach und will mir Ade
                  sagen.“ Die Mutter sprach: „ei Narr, das ist dein Kätzchen nicht, das ist die
                  Morgensonne, die auf den Schornstein scheint.“ Hänsel aber hatte
                  nicht nach dem Kätzchen gese- hen, sondern immer einen von den blanken Kiesel-
                  steinen aus seiner Tasche auf den Weg geworfen.</p>
               <p>Wie sie mitten in den Wald gekommen waren, sprach der Vater, „nun sammelt Holz, ihr Kinder, ich will
                  ein Feuer anmachen, daß wir nicht frieren.“ Hänsel und Gretel trugen Reisig zusammen, einen kleinen Berg hoch. Da steckten
                  sie es an, und wie die Flamme recht groß brannte, sagte die Mutter
                  „nun legt euch ans Feuer und
                  schlaft, wir wollen in dem Wald das Holz fällen, wartet, bis wir wieder kommen,
                  und euch abholen.“</p>
               <p>Hänsel und Gretel saßen an dem Feuer, bis Mittag, da aß
                  jedes sein Stücklein Brod, und dann wieder bis an den Abend; aber Va- ter und
                  Mutter blieben aus, und niemand woll- te kommen und sie abholen.
                  Wie es nun fin- stere Nacht wurde, fing Gretel an zu weinen,
                  Hänsel aber sprach: „wart nur ein
                  Weilchen, bis der Mond aufgegangen ist.“ Und als der Mond aufgegangen
                  war, <span class="benevolent">faßte er die Gre-
                     tel bei der Hand</span>, da lagen die Kieselsteine wie
                  neugeschlagene Batzen und schimmerten und zeigten ihnen den Weg. Da gingen sie die
                  ganze Nacht durch, und wie es Morgen war, kamen sie wieder bei ihres Vaters Haus an.
                  Der Vater freute sich von Herzen, als er seine Kinder wieder sah, denn er hatte sie
                  ungern allein gelassen, die Mutter stellte sich auch, als wenn sie
                  sich freute, heimlich aber <span class="hostile">war
                     sie bös</span>.</p>
               <p>Nicht lange darnach, war wieder kein Brod im Hause und Hänsel und Gretel hörten wie Abends die Mutter zum Vater sagte:
                  „einmal haben die Kinder den
                  Weg zurückgefunden, und da habe ichs gut seyn lassen, aber jetzt ist wie- der
                  nichts, als nur noch ein halber Laib Brod im Haus, du mußt sie morgen tiefer in
                  den Wald führen, daß sie nicht wieder heim kom- men können, es ist sonst keine
                  Hülfe für uns mehr.“ Dem Mann fiels schwer aufs Herz, und er
                  gedachte, es wäre doch besser, wenn du den letzten Bissen mit deinen Kindern
                  theiltest, weil er es aber einmal gethan hatte, so durfte er nicht nein sagen.
                  Hänsel und Gretel hörten das Gespräch der Eltern; Hänsel
                  stand auf und wollte wieder Kieselsteine auflesen, wie er aber an die Thüre kam, da
                  hatte sie die Mutter zu- geschlossen. Doch tröstete er die
                  Gretel und sprach: „schlaf nur, lieb Gretel, der liebe
                  Gott wird uns schon helfen.“</p>
               <p>Morgens früh erhielten sie ihr Stücklein Brod, noch kleiner als das vorigemal. Auf
                  dem Wege bröckelte es Hänsel in der Tasche, stand oft still, und warf ein Bröcklein
                  an die Erde. „Was bleibst du immer
                  stehen, Hänsel, und guckst dich um, sagte der Vater, geh dei- ner
                  Wege.“
                  „Ach! ich seh nach meinem
                  Täubchen, das sitzt auf dem Dach und will mir Ade sagen“
                  „du Narr, sagte die Mutter, das ist dein Täubchen nicht, das ist die Morgenson- ne,
                  die auf den Schornstein oben scheint.“ Hänsel aber zerbröckelte all
                  sein Brod und warf die Bröcklein auf den Weg.</p>
               <p>Die Mutter aber führte sie noch tiefer in den Wald
                  hinein, wo sie ihr Lebtag nicht ge- wesen waren, da sollten sie wieder einschlafen
                  bei einem großen Feuer, und Abends wollten die Eltern kommen und sie abholen. Zu
                  Mit- tag theilte Gretel ihr Brod mit Hänsel, weil der seins all
                  auf den Weg gestreut; der Mit- tag verging und der Abend verging, aber nie- mand kam
                  zu den armen Kindern. Hänsel trö- stete die Gretel und sagte:
                  „wart, wenn der Mond aufgeht,
                  dann seh ich die Bröcklein Brod, die ich ausgestreut habe, die zeigen uns den
                  Weg nach Haus.“ Der Mond ging auf, wie aber Hänsel nach den Bröcklein
                  sah, da waren sie weg, die viel tausend Vöglein in dem Wald, die hatten sie gefunden
                  und aufgepickt. Hänsel meinte doch den Weg nach Haus zu finden und zog die
                  Gretel mit sich, aber sie ver- irrten sich bald
                  in der großen Wildniß und gingen die Nacht und den ganzen Tag, da schliefen sie vor
                  Müdigkeit ein; und gingen noch einen Tag, aber sie kamen nicht aus den Wald heraus,
                  und waren so hungrig, denn sie hatten nichts zu essen, als ein paar kleine Beer-
                  lein, die auf der Erde standen.</p>
               <p>Am dritten Tage gingen sie wieder bis zu Mittag, da kamen sie an ein Häuslein, das
                  war ganz aus Brod gebaut und war mit Ku- chen gedeckt, und die Fenster waren von
                  hellem Zucker. „Da wollen wir uns
                  niedersetzen und uns satt essen, sagte Hänsel; ich will vom Dach essen, iß du
                  vom Fenster, Gretel, das ist fein süß für
                  dich.“ Hänsel hatte schon ein gut Stück vom Dach und Gretel schon ein paar runde Fensterscheiben gegessen, und brach
                  sich eben eine neue aus, da hörten sie eine feine Stimme, die von innen herausrief:
                  „knuper, knuper, Kneischen!
                  „wer knupert an meinem Häuschen!“ Hänsel und Gretel erschracken so gewaltig, daß sie fallen ließen, was sie in
                  der Hand hielten, und gleich darauf sahen sie aus der Thüre eine kleine steinalte
                  Frau schleichen. Sie wackelte mit dem
                  Kopf und sagte: „ei, ihr lieben
                  Kin- der, wo seyd ihr denn hergelaufen, kommt her- ein mit mir, ihr sollts gut
                  haben,“ faßte beide an der Hand und führte sie in ihr Häuschen. Da
                  ward gutes Essen aufgetragen, Milch und Pfannkuchen mit Zucker, Aepfel und Nüsse,
                  und dann wurden zwei schöne Bettlein bereitet, da legten sich Hänsel und Gretel hinein, und meinten sie wären wie im Himmel.</p>
               <p>Die Alte aber war eine böse Hexe, die lauerte den
                  Kindern auf, und hatte um sie zu locken ihr Brodhäuslein gebaut, und wenn eins in
                  ihre Gewalt kam, da machte sie es todt, kochte es
                  und aß es, und das war ihr ein Fest- tag. Da war sie nun recht froh, wie
                  Hänsel und Gretel ihr zugelaufen kamen. Früh, ehe sie noch erwacht waren, stand sie schon auf, ging an
                  ihre Bettlein und wie sie die zwei so lieblich ruhen sah, freute
                  sie sich und gedachte, das wird ein guter Bissen für dich seyn.
                  Sie packte Hänsel und steckte ihn in einen kleinen Stall, und wie
                  er da aufwachte, war er von einem Gitter umschlossen, wie man junge Hühn- lein
                  einsperrt, und konnte nur ein paar Schritte gehen. Das Gretel aber schüttelte sie und rief:
                  steh auf, du Faullenzerin, hol Wasser und geh in die Küche und koch gut zu
                  essen, dort steckt dein Bruder in einem Stall, den will ich erst fett machen,
                  und wann er fett ist, dann will ich ihn essen, jetzt sollst du ihn
                  füttern.
                  Gre- tel erschrack und weinte, mußte aber thun, was die Hexe verlangte. Da ward nun alle Tage dem Hänsel das beste Essen
                  gekocht, daß er fett werden sollte, Gretel aber bekam
                  nichts, als die Krebsschalen, und alle Tage kam die Alte und sagte: „Hänsel, streck deine Finger heraus, daß ich fühle, ob du bald fett genug
                  bist.“ Hänsel streckte ihr aber immer ein Knöch- lein heraus, da
                  verwunderte sie sich, daß er gar nicht zunehmen wolle.</p>
               <p>Nach vier Wochen sagte sie eines Abends zu Gretel: „sey
                  flink, geh und trag Wasser herbei, dein Brüderchen mag nun fett genug seyn oder
                  nicht, morgen will ich es schlachten und sieden, ich will derweile den Teig
                  anma- chen, daß wir auch dazu backen können. Da ging Gretel mit traurigem Herzen und trug das Wasser, worin Hänsel
                  sollte gesotten wer- den. Früh Morgens mußte Gretel aufstehen,
                  Feuer anmachen und den Kessel mit Wasser aufhängen. „Gieb nun Acht, bis es siedet, sag- te die Hexe, ich will Feuer in den Backofen machen und das Brod
                  hineinschieben;“
                  Gretel stand in der Küche und weinte blutige Thrä- nen, und dachte,
                  hätten uns lieber die wilden Thiere im Walde gefressen, so wären wir zu- sammen
                  gestorben und müßten nun nicht das Herzeleid tragen, und ich müßte nicht selber das
                  Wasser zu dem Tod meines lieben Bruders sieden, du lieber Gott, hilf uns armen Kin-
                  dern aus der Noth.</p>
               <p>Da rief die Alte: „Gretel komm gleich
                  einmal hierher zu dem Backofen,“ wie Gretel kam, sagte sie: „guck hinein, ob das Brod schon hübsch
                  braun und gar ist, meine Augen sind schwach, ich kann nicht so weit sehen, und
                  wenn du auch nicht kannst, so setz dich auf das Brett, so will ich dich
                  hineinschieben, da kannst du darin
                  herumgehen und nachsehen.“ Wenn aber Gretel darin war, <span class="hostile">da wollte sie zumachen</span>
                  und <span class="hostile">Gretel sollte in dem heißen Ofen backen</span>, und sie wollte es auch aufessen: das dachte die böse Hexe, und darum hatte sie das Gretel ge- rufen. Gott gab es aber Gretel ein und sie sagte: „ich weiß nicht, wie ich das anfangen
                  soll, zeigs mirs erst, setz dich drauf, ich will dich hin-
                  einschieben.“ Und die Alte setzte sich auf
                  das Brett, und weil sie leicht war, <span class="hostile">schob sie
                     Gretel hinein so weit sie konnte</span>, und
                  dann <span class="hostile">machte sie geschwind die
                     Thüre zu</span>, und <span class="hostile">steckte
                     den eisernen Riegel vor</span>. Da <span class="hostile">fing die Alte an in dem
                     heißen Back- ofen zu schreien und zu jammern</span>, Gretel aber lief fort, und <span class="hostile">sie mußte elendiglich verbrennen</span>.</p>
               <p>Und Gretel lief zum Hänsel, machte ihm sein Thürchen auf und Hänsel
                  sprang heraus, und sie küßten sich einander und waren froh. Das ganze Häuschen war
                  voll von Edelgestei- nen und Perlen, davon füllten sie ihre Taschen, gingen fort und
                  fanden den Weg nach Haus. Der Vater freute sich als er sie wieder sah, er hatte
                  keinen vergnügten Tag gehabt, seit seine Kinder fort waren, und ward nun ein reicher
                  Mann. Die <span class="hostile">Mutter aber war gestorben</span>.</p>
            </div>
         </div>
      </main>
      <!--#include virtual="footer.xhtml" --></body>
</html>