<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<!-- set title -->
		<title>Grimms' Fairy Tales</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css" />
		<link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/jpg" href="red-riding-hood.png" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
		<main>
			<div class="textarea">
				<!-- textarea style -->
				<h3>overview of our project</h3>
				<p>Our project consists of a thorough analysis of the Grimm Fairy Tales in order to
					find connections between the "good" vs. the "evil" mother-figure. In order to do
					this, we characterized and tagged all women mentioned, tagged all actions,and
					tagged all dialogue. Our main goals were: </p>
				<ol>
					<li>What types of women figures are represented and what defines them?</li>
					<li>Find differences between the "good" vs the "evil" mother-figure.</li>
					<li>Does the English version accurately translate the 1812 German text? </li>
					<li>If there are differences, what are they?</li>
				</ol>
				<p>Our analysis of the ten different German and the translated English Tales allowed
					us to answer some of these questions and to pose a few more.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="textarea">
				<!-- textarea style -->
				<h3>our team</h3>
				<h4>About the Developers</h4>
				<p>Regis Curtis is triple majoring in German, French, and West European Studies. He
					joined this class to "STEMify" his humanities education. His favorite Grimms'
					Fairy Tale is "Cinderella" because he loves the Disney dichotomy.</p>
				<p>Darian McGinnis is a Computer Science Major. She joined this class because she
					wanted to expand her computer science skills. Her favorite Grimms' Fairy Tale is
					"Little Red Cap" beause of it's wholesome ending.</p>
				<p>Victoria Costa is a non-traditional student majoring in English Literature and
					minoring in Film Studies. She took this class because she thought it might be a
					good elective for someone potientially studying Library Science in grad school.
					Her favorite Grimms' Fairy Tale is "Little Snow White", if only because the
					Disney version inspired a great Miles Davis record.</p>
				<p>Alexis Moffa is an Architectural Studies major. She joined this class to expand
					her technological skills and learn applications of this in the real world. Her
					favorite Grimms' Fairy Tale is "Hansel and Gretel", for it holds a special place
					in her heart as she once played Hansel in a play.</p>
				<p>Marion Riley (TA) is a Linguistics and Religious Studies major. Her favorite
					thing about being a TA for this course is helping students problem solve their
					code and getting that "aha!" moment when something works! Her favorite Grimms'
					Fairy Tale is "Snow White and Rose Red".</p>
				<p>The team wishes to extend a special thank you to our professor, Dr. David
					Birnbaum, and the rest of the instructional team, for their guidance and support
					throughout the development of this project. </p>
			</div>
		</main>
		<!--#include virtual="footer.xhtml" -->
	</body>
</html>
