<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>The Juniper Tree</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css"/>
      <link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/jpg" href="red-riding-hood.png"/>
   </head>
   <body><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
      <main><!--#include virtual="storynav.xhtml" -->
         <h1>The Juniper Tree</h1>
         <div class="grid-story">
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-11">German Version</div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-13">English Version</div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-12">
               <p>
                  While beginning to mark-up The Juniper Tree from the 
                  original source for the German text, the team discovered 
                  that it was in Low German instead of Standard German.
                  					            Efforts to find a usable German version that we felt 
                  					            confident in from other sources proved unsuccessful. 
                  					            We have decided to include only the English version of
                  					            The Juniper Tree as it still offers interesting data 
                  					            as to our main research question of the Grimms' 
                  					            portrayal of women characters.
                  </p>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-14">
               
               <p> Long ago, at least two thousand years, there was <span class="benevolent">a rich man who had a beautiful and pious
                     wife,</span> and they loved each other
                  dearly. However, they had no children, though they wished very much to have some,
                  and
                  the
                  woman prayed for them day and night, but they didn't get any,
                  and they didn't get any.</p>
               
               <p>In front of their house there was a courtyard where there stood a juniper tree. One
                  day
                  in winter the woman was standing beneath it, peeling herself
                  an apple, and while she was
                  thus peeling the apple,
                  she cut her finger, and the
                  blood fell into the snow.</p>
               
               <p>"Oh," said the woman.
                  <span class="hostile">She sighed heavily, looked at
                     the blood before her, and was most unhappy.</span>
                  "If only I had a child as red
                  as blood and as white as snow." And as she said that, <span class="benevolent">she became quite contented, and felt sure
                     that it was going to happen.</span></p>
               
               <p>Then she went into the house, and a month went by, and the snow was gone. And two
                  months,
                  and everything was green. And three months, and all the flowers came out of the earth.
                  And four months, and all the trees in the woods grew thicker, and the green branches
                  were all entwined in one another, and the birds sang until the woods resounded and
                  the
                  blossoms fell from the trees. Then the fifth month passed, and she stood beneath the juniper tree,
                  which smelled so sweet that <span class="benevolent">her heart jumped for joy,</span> and <span class="benevolent">she fell on her knees and was beside herself.</span> And when the
                  sixth month was over, the fruit was thick and large, and then <span class="benevolent">she was quite still.</span> And after the
                  seventh month <span class="benevolent">she picked the
                     juniper berries</span> and ate them greedily. Then <span class="hostile">she grew sick and sorrowful.</span> Then the eighth month passed,
                  and <span class="hostile">she called
                     her husband to her, and cried,</span> and said, "If I die, then bury me beneath the juniper
                  tree." Then <span class="benevolent">she was quite comforted and happy</span> until the next month was over, and <span class="benevolent">then she had a
                     child as white as snow and as red as blood,</span> and <span class="benevolent">when she saw it, she was so happy</span>
                  that <span class="hostile">she
                     died.</span></p>
               
               <p><span class="benevolent">Her husband
                     buried her beneath the juniper tree,</span> and he began to cry bitterly. After some
                  time he was more at ease, and although he still cried, he could bear it. And some
                  time
                  later he
                  took another wife.</p>
               
               <p>He had a daughter by the second
                  wife, but the
                  first wife's child was a little son, and he was as red as
                  blood and as white as snow. <span class="benevolent">When the woman looked at her daughter,</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">she loved
                     her very much,</span> but then <span class="hostile">she looked at the little boy, and it pierced her heart,</span> for
                  <span class="hostile">she thought
                     that he would always stand in her way,</span> and <span class="hostile">she was
                     always thinking how she could get the entire inheritance for her daughter.</span> And
                  <span class="hostile">the
                     Evil One filled her mind with this</span> until <span class="hostile">she grew very angry with the little boy,</span> and
                  <span class="hostile">she pushed him
                     from one corner to the other and slapped him here and cuffed him there,</span> until
                  the poor child was always afraid, for when he came home from school there was nowhere
                  he
                  could find any peace.</p>
               
               <p>One day the woman had gone upstairs to her room, when her little
                  daughter came up too, and said, "Mother, give me an apple."
                  "Yes, my child," said the woman,and <span class="benevolent">gave her a beautiful
                     apple out of the chest.</span> The chest had a large heavy lid with a large sharp
                  iron lock. "Mother," said the
                  little daughter, "is brother not to have
                  one too?"
                  <span class="hostile">This made the
                     woman angry,</span> but she said, "Yes, when he comes home from
                  school."</p>
               
               <p>When from the window <span class="hostile">she saw him coming,</span>
                  <span class="hostile">it was as
                     though the Evil One came over her,</span> and <span class="hostile">she grabbed the apple and took it
                     away from her daughter,</span> saying, "You shall not have one before your brother."
                  She threw the apple into the
                  chest, and shut it. Then the little boy came in the door, and <span class="hostile">the
                     Evil One made her say to him kindly,</span>
                  "My son, do you want an
                  apple?" And <span class="hostile">she looked at him fiercely.</span>
                  "Mother," said the
                  little boy, "how angry you look. Yes, give me an apple." Then it seemed
                  to her as if <span class="hostile">she
                     had to persuade him.</span>
                  "Come with me," she
                  said, opening the lid of the chest. "Take out an apple for yourself." And while the
                  little boy was leaning over, <span class="hostile">the Evil One prompted her,</span> and crash! <span class="hostile">she slammed down the lid, and his
                     head flew off,</span> falling among the red apples.</p>
               
               <p>Then <span class="hostile">fear overcame her,</span> and
                  she thought, "Maybe I can get out
                  of this." So she
                  went upstairs to her room to her chest of drawers, and took a white scarf out of the
                  top drawer, and <span class="hostile">set the head on the neck again, tying the scarf around it so that
                     nothing could be seen.</span> Then <span class="hostile">she set him on a chair in front of the door and put
                     the apple in his hand.</span> After this Marlene came into the
                  kitchen to her mother,
                  who was standing by the fire
                  with a pot of hot water before her which she was stirring around and around.
                  "Mother," said
                  Marlene, "brother is sitting at the door, and he looks totally white and has an
                  apple in his hand. I asked him to give me the apple, but he did not answer me, and
                  I
                  was very frightened."
                  "Go back to him," said her
                  mother, "and if he will not answer you, then box his ears." So <span class="hostile">Marlene went to him</span> and said, "Brother, give me the apple." But he was silent,
                  so <span class="hostile">she gave him one on
                     the ear, and his head fell off.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">Marlene was
                     terrified,</span> and began crying and screaming, and ran to her mother, and
                  said, "Oh, mother, I have knocked my brother's head off," and <span class="hostile">she cried and cried and could not be
                     comforted.</span>
                  "Marlene," said the mother, "what have you done? Be quiet and don't let anyone know
                  about it. It cannot be helped now. We will cook him into stew." Then <span class="hostile">the mother took the
                     little boy and chopped him in pieces, put him into the pot, and cooked him into
                     stew.</span> But <span class="hostile">Marlene stood by
                     crying and crying,</span> and all her tears fell into the pot, and they did not need
                  any salt.</p>
               
               <p>Then the father came home, and sat down at the table and said, "Where is my son?" And the <span class="hostile">mother served up a large, large dish of stew,</span> and <span class="hostile">Marlene cried and could not
                     stop.</span> Then the father said again, "Where is my son?"
                  "Oh," said the mother, "he has
                  gone across the country to his mother's great uncle. He will stay there
                  awhile."
                  "What is he doing there? He did not
                  even say good-bye to me."
                  "Oh, he wanted to go, and asked me
                  if he could stay six weeks. He will be well taken care of there."
                  "Oh," said the man, "I am unhappy. It
                  isn't right. He should have said good-bye to me." With that he began to eat,
                  saying, "Marlene, why are you crying?
                  Your brother will certainly come back." Then he said, "Wife, this food is delicious. Give me some
                  more." And <span class="hostile">the
                     more he ate the more he wanted,</span> and he said, "Give me some more. You two shall have none of it. It seems
                  to me as if it were all mine." And <span class="hostile">he ate and ate, throwing all the bones under the table,
                     until he had finished it all.</span></p>
               
               <p>Marlene went to her chest of drawers, <span class="benevolent">took her best silk scarf from the bottom drawer,
                     and gathered all the bones from beneath the table and tied them up</span> in her silk
                  scarf, <span class="benevolent">then carried
                     them outside the door, crying tears of blood.</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">She laid them down
                     beneath the juniper tree</span> on the green grass, and after she had put them
                  there,<span class="benevolent"> she suddenly felt
                     better and did not cry anymore.</span></p>
               
               <p>Then the juniper tree began to move. The branches moved apart, then moved together
                  again,
                  just as if someone were rejoicing and clapping his hands. At the same time a mist
                  seemed
                  to rise from the tree, and in the center of this mist it burned like a fire, and a beautiful bird flew out of the
                  fire singing magnificently, and it flew high into the air, and when it was
                  gone, the juniper tree was just as it had been before, and the cloth with the bones
                  was
                  no longer there.<span class="benevolent"> Marlene,
                     however, was as happy and contented as if her brother were still alive.</span> And
                  <span class="benevolent">she went merrily into the
                     house, sat down at the table, and ate.</span></p>
               
               <p>Then the bird flew away and lit on a goldsmith's house, and began to sing: <span class="hostile">My mother, she killed me,</span> My father, he
                  ate me, <span class="benevolent">My
                     sister Marlene, Gathered all my bones, Tied them in a silken scarf, Laid them
                     beneath the juniper tree,</span> Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am
                  I.</p>
               
               <p>The goldsmith was sitting in his workshop making a golden chain, when he heard the
                  bird
                  sitting on his roof and singing. The song seemed very beautiful to him. He stood up,
                  but
                  as he crossed the threshold he lost one of his slippers. However, he went right up
                  the
                  middle of the street with only one slipper and one sock on. He had his leather apron
                  on,
                  and in one hand he had a golden chain and in the other his tongs. The sun was shining
                  brightly on the street. He walked onward, then stood still and said to the bird,
                  "Bird," he said, "how
                  beautifully you can sing. Sing that piece again for me."
                  "No," said the bird, "I do not sing twice
                  for nothing. Give me the golden chain, and then I will sing it again for
                  you." The goldsmith said, "Here is the golden chain for you. Now sing that song again for
                  me." Then the bird came and took the golden chain in his right claw, and
                  went and sat in front of the goldsmith, and sang: <span class="hostile">My mother, she killed me,</span> My father, he ate me, <span class="benevolent">My sister
                     Marlene, Gathered all my bones, Tied them in a silken scarf, Laid them beneath
                     the juniper tree,</span> Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am I.</p>
               
               <p>Then the bird flew away to a shoemaker, and lit on his roof and sang: <span class="hostile">My mother, she killed me,</span> My father, he
                  ate me, <span class="benevolent">My
                     sister Marlene, Gathered all my bones, Tied them in a silken scarf, Laid them
                     beneath the juniper tree,</span> Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am
                  I. Hearing this, the shoemaker ran out of doors in his shirtsleeves, and
                  looked up at his roof, and had to hold his hand in front of his eyes to keep the sun
                  from blinding him. "Bird," said
                  he, "how beautifully you can sing." Then he called in at his door,
                  "Wife, come outside. There is
                  a bird here. Look at this bird. He certainly can sing." Then he called
                  his daughter and her children, and the journeyman, and the apprentice, and the maid,
                  and
                  they all came out into the street and looked at the bird and saw how beautiful he
                  was,
                  and what fine red and green feathers he had, and how his neck was like pure gold,
                  and
                  how his eyes shone like stars in his head. "Bird," said the shoemaker, "now sing that song again for
                  me."
                  "No," said the bird, "I do not sing twice
                  for nothing. You must give me something."
                  "Wife," said the man, "go into the
                  shop. There is a pair of red shoes on the top shelf. Bring them down."
                  Then the wife went and brought the shoes. "There, bird," said the man, "now sing that
                  piece again for me." Then the bird came and took the shoes in his left claw, and flew
                  back to the roof, and sang: <span class="hostile">My mother, she
                     killed me,</span> My father, he ate me, <span class="benevolent">My sister Marlene, Gathered all my bones,
                     Tied them in a silken scarf, Laid them beneath the juniper tree,</span> Tweet,
                  tweet, what a beautiful bird am I.</p>
               
               <p>When he had finished his song he flew away. In his right claw he had the chain and
                  in his
                  left one the shoes. He flew far away to a mill, and the mill went clickety-clack,
                  clickety-clack, clickety-clack. In the mill sat twenty miller's apprentices cutting
                  a
                  stone, and chiseling chip-chop, chip-chop, chip-chop. And the mill went clickety-clack,
                  clickety-clack, clickety-clack. Then the bird went and sat on a linden tree which
                  stood
                  in front of the mill, and sang: <span class="hostile">My mother, she
                     killed me,</span> Then one of them stopped working. My father, he ate
                  me, Then two more stopped working and listened, My sister Marlene, Then four
                  more stopped, <span class="benevolent">Gathered all my bones, Tied
                     them in a silken scarf,</span> Now only eight only were chiseling,
                  <span class="benevolent">Laid them beneath</span> Now only
                  five, the juniper tree, Now only one, Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am I.</p>
               
               <p>Then the last one stopped also, and heard the last words. "Bird," said he, "how beautifully you sing. Let me hear that
                  too. Sing it once more for me."
                  "No," said the bird, "I do not sing twice
                  for nothing. Give me the millstone, and then I will sing it again."
                  "Yes," he said, "if it belonged
                  only to me, you should have it."
                  "Yes," said the others, "if he
                  sings again he can have it." Then the bird came down, and the twenty
                  millers took a beam and lifted the stone up. Yo-heave-ho! Yo-heave-ho! Yo-heave-ho!
                  The
                  bird stuck his neck through the hole and put the stone on as if it were a collar,
                  then
                  flew to the tree again, and sang: <span class="hostile">My mother, she
                     killed me,</span> My father, he ate me,
                  <span class="benevolent">My sister
                     Marlene, Gathered all my bones, Tied them in a silken scarf, Laid them beneath
                     the juniper tree,</span> Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am I.</p>
               
               <p>When he was finished singing, he spread his wings, and in his right claw he had the
                  chain, and in his left one the shoes, and around his neck the millstone. He flew far
                  away to his father's house. In the room the father, the mother, and
                  Marlene were sitting at the table. The father said, "I feel so contented. I am so
                  happy."
                  "Not I," said the
                  mother, "I feel uneasy, just as if a bad storm were
                  coming." But <span class="hostile">Marlene
                     just sat and cried and cried.</span> Then the bird flew up, and as it seated itself
                  on the roof, the father said, "Oh, I
                  feel so truly happy, and the sun is shining so beautifully outside. I feel as if I
                  were about to see some old acquaintance again."
                  "Not I," said the
                  woman,"I am so afraid that my teeth are chattering, and I feel like
                  I have fire in my veins." And <span class="hostile">she tore open her bodice even more.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">Marlene sat in a corner crying.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">She held a handkerchief before her
                     eyes and cried until it was wet clear through.</span></p>
               
               <p> Then the bird seated itself on the juniper tree, and sang: <span class="hostile">My mother, she killed me,</span>
                  <span class="hostile">The
                     mother stopped her ears and shut her eyes,</span> not wanting to see
                  or hear, but <span class="hostile">there was a roaring
                     in her ears like the fiercest storm,</span> and her eyes burned and flashed like
                  lightning. My father, he ate me, "Oh,
                  mother," said the man, "that is a beautiful bird. He is singing so splendidly, and
                  the sun is shining so warmly, and it smells like pure cinnamon."
                  My sister
                  Marlene, Then <span class="hostile">Marlene laid her head on her knees and cried and cried,</span> but
                  the man said, "I am going out. I must
                  see the bird up close."
                  "Oh, don't go," said the
                  woman, "I feel as if the whole house were shaking and on
                  fire." But the man went out and looked at the bird. <span class="benevolent">Gathered all my bones, Tied them
                     in a silken scarf, Laid them beneath the juniper tree,</span> Tweet, tweet, what a
                  beautiful bird am I.</p>
               
               
               <p>With this the bird dropped the golden chain, and it fell right around the man's neck,
                  so
                  exactly around it that it fit beautifully. Then the man went in and said, "Just look what a beautiful bird that is,
                  and what a beautiful golden chain he has given me, and how nice it
                  looks." But <span class="hostile">the
                     woman was terrified.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">She fell down on the floor in the
                     room, and her cap fell off her head.</span> Then the bird sang once more: <span class="hostile">My mother killed me.</span>
                  "I wish I were a thousand fathoms
                  beneath the earth, so I would not have to hear that!" My father, he ate
                  me, Then <span class="hostile">the woman fell down as if
                     she were dead.</span>
                  
                  My sister Marlene,
                  "Oh," said Marlene, "I too will go out and see if the bird will give me
                  something."
                  Then she went out.
                  <span class="benevolent">Gathered all my bones, Tied them in a silken
                     scarf,</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">He threw the shoes
                     down to her.</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">Laid them beneath the juniper
                     tree,</span> Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am I. Then <span class="benevolent">she was contented and happy.</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">She put on the new red shoes and
                     danced and leaped into the house.</span>
                  "Oh," she said, "I was so sad when I
                  went out and now I am so contented. That is a splendid bird, he has given me a pair
                  of red shoes."
                  "No," said the woman, jumping to
                  her feet and with her hair standing up like flames of fire, "I feel as if the world
                  were coming to an end. I too, will go out and see if it makes me feel
                  better." And as she went out the door,
                  <span class="hostile">crash! the bird
                     threw the millstone on her head,</span> and it <span class="hostile">crushed her to death.</span> The father and
                  Marlene heard it and went out. Smoke, flames, and fire were rising from
                  the place, and when that was over, <span class="benevolent">the
                     little brother was standing there,</span> and he took his father and Marlene by the hand, and all three were very happy, and they went into
                  the house, sat down at the table, and ate.</p>
               </div>
         </div>
      </main>
      <!--#include virtual="footer.xhtml" --></body>
</html>