<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<!-- set title -->
		<title>methodology - Grimms' Fairy Tales</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css" />
		<link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/jpg" href="red-riding-hood.png" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
		<main>
			<h1>methodology</h1>
			<div class="textarea">
				<!-- textarea style -->
				<h3>how we did it</h3>
				<p>In order to analyze our text, we created a Relax NG schema to define the elements
					and attributes of our XML. These elements and attributes were created to have
					the ability to markup the Ashliman translations and the original German Tales.
					Our focus is to tag the women in these tales. By doing this, we are able to
					achieve a more comprehensive understanding of how the women are characterized,
					such as “good&#8221; vs. “evil&#8221;, in the simpliest terms.<br /> The Tales
					that we analyzed are as follows:<br /> English:<br /> Cinderella<br /> Frau
					Holle<br /> Hansel and Gretel<br /> Little Red Cap<br /> Little Snow White<br />
					Rapunzel<br /> Sweetheart Roland<br /> The Juniper Tree<br /> The Six
					Swans<br /> The Twelve Brothers<br /> German:<br /> Cinderella<br /> Frau
					Holle<br /> Hansel and Gretel <br /> Little Red Cap<br /> Rapunzel<br />
					Sneewittchen<br /> Sweetheart Roland<br /> The Six Swans <br /> The Twelve
					Brothers<br /> In order to come to any conclusions about the characterizations
					of women in these tales we, first, needed to tag the metadata of each tale, including:<br />
					<code>&lt;metadata&gt;&lt;/metadata&gt;</code><br />
					<code>&lt;title&gt;&lt;/title&gt;</code><br />
					<code>&lt;year&gt;&lt;/year&gt;</code><br />
					<code>&lt;author&gt;&lt;/author&gt;</code><br />
					<code>&lt;editor&gt;&lt;/editor&gt;</code><br />
					<code>&lt;translator&gt;&lt;/translator&gt;</code><br />
					<code>&lt;language&gt;&lt;/language&gt;</code><br />
					<code>&lt;number&gt;&lt;/number&gt;</code><br /> The story and the tale itself
					is tagged using story and paragraph tags.<br /> A character tag was used to tag
					only women, but every time a woman is referenced in the text. This is done using
					an element called “<code>&lt;character&gt;&lt;/character&gt;</code>&#8221;,<br /> with
					the attributes:<br /> @child-status -- in order to display if that character is
					a: “mother&#8221; | “stepmother&#8221; | “grandmother&#8221; | “godmother&#8221; | “adopted&#8221; |
					“childless&#8221;<br /> @martial-staus -- in order to display if that character is a:
					“wife&#8221; | “widow&#8221; | “fiancee&#8221; | “divorcee&#8221; | “unmarried&#8221;<br /> @reference -- in
					order to individually refer to a character with a specific but original name,
					for each developer to remember the character by<br /> All dialogue is tagged
					with the element, “<code>&lt;dialogue&gt;&lt;/dialogue&gt;</code>&#8221; and
					includes:<br /> @speaker -- to name who is active in this dialogue<br />
					@state-of-being -- in order to indicate the feeling behind the dialogue:
					“positive&#8221; | “negative&#8221; | “neutral&#8221;<br /> *The elements
					“<code>&lt;character&gt;&lt;/character&gt;</code>&#8221; and
					“<code>&lt;act&gt;&lt;/act&gt;</code>&#8221; can be present within the
					dialogue.<br /> All acts are tagged to emphasis interactions by the women
					characters, to the women characters, or because of the women characters with the
					“<code>&lt;act&gt;&lt;/act&gt;</code>&#8221; element, including:<br /> @type -- in
					order to determine what kind of action: “being&#8221; or “doing&#8221;<br /> @effect -- in
					order to describe how the interaction is perecived: “hostile&#8221; | “benevolent&#8221; |
					“ambiguous&#8221;<br /> @agent -- to indicate who is displaying the act<br /> *The
					attributes:<br /> @io -- the indirect object of the act<br /> @receiver -- the
					character who is being acted on<br /> This markup allows the project‘s
					developers to collect data to indicate the quantity and what kinds of women are
					included in each of the tales. Since this data is collected, the comparison
					between the original German and the translated English tales is possible.
					Differences and similarities are displayed between each tale‘s characterization
					of women. </p>
			</div>
		</main>
		<!--#include virtual="footer.xhtml" -->
	</body>
</html>
