<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Rapunzel</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css"/>
      <link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/jpg" href="red-riding-hood.png"/>
   </head>
   <body><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
      <main><!--#include virtual="storynav.xhtml" -->
         <h1>Rapunzel</h1>
         <div class="grid-story">
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-11">English Version</div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-13">German Version</div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-12">
               <p>Once upon a time there was
                  a man and a woman who had long, but to no avail, wished for
                  a child.
                  <span class="benevolent">Finally the woman came to believe that the good Lord would fulfill
                     her wish.</span>
                  Through the small rear
                  window of these people's house they could see into a splendid garden that was
                  filled with the most beautiful flowers and herbs.
                  The garden was surrounded by a
                  high wall,
                  and no one dared enter,<span class="hostile"> because it belonged to a
                     sorceress who possessed great power and was feared by everyone.</span></p>
               <p>One day the woman was standing at
                  this window,
                  and she saw a bed planted with the
                  most beautiful rapunzel.
                  It looked so fresh and green that
                  she longed for some.
                  It was her greatest desire to eat
                  some of the rapunzel.
                  This desire increased with every
                  day,
                  <span class="hostile">and not knowing how to get any, she became
                     miserably ill.</span></p>
               <p><span class="hostile">Her husband was frightened, and
                     asked her</span>, "What ails
                  you, dear wife?"</p>
               <p>"Oh,"<span class="hostile">she answered,</span>"if I do not get some rapunzel from the garden behind
                  our house, I shall die."
                  </p>
               <p>The man, who loved her dearly,
                  thought,
                  "Before you let your wife die, you must get her some of the rapunzel, whatever the
                  cost."</p>
               <p><span class="hostile">So just as it was getting dark he
                     climbed over the high wall into the sorceress's
                     garden, hastily dug up a handful of rapunzel, and took it to his wife.</span>
                  She immediately made a salad from
                  it, which she devoured eagerly.
                  It tasted so very good to her that
                  by the next day her desire for more had grown threefold.
                  If she were to have any peace, the
                  man would have to climb into the garden once again.
                  Thus he set forth once again
                  just as it was getting dark. But no sooner than he had climbed over the wall
                  than, to his horror, he saw the sorceress standing there before him.</p>
               <p>"How can you dare," she asked with an angry look, "to climb into my garden and like
                  a thief to steal my rapunzel? You will pay for this."</p>
               <p>"Oh," he answered, "Let mercy
                  overrule justice. I came to do this out of necessity. My wife saw your rapunzel from our window, and such a longing came
                  over her, that she would die, if she did not get some to eat."</p>
               <p>The sorceress's anger abated
                  somewhat, and she said,
                  If things are as you say, I
                  will allow you to take as much rapunzel as you want. But under one condition:
                  You must give me the child that your
                  wife will bring to the world. It will do well, and I will take care of it like a
                  mother."</p>
               <p><span class="hostile">In his fear the man agreed to
                     everything.</span>
                  </p>
               <p><span class="hostile">When the woman gave birth, the sorceress appeared, named the little girl
                     Rapunzel, and took her away. Rapunzel became the most beautiful child under the
                     sun.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">When she
                     was twelve years old, the sorceress locked her in a tower that stood in a forest
                     and that had neither a door nor a stairway, but only a tiny little window at the
                     very top.</span></p>
               <p>When the
                  sorceress wanted to enter, she stood below and called out:</p>
               <p>Rapunzel, Rapunzel, Let down
                  your hair to me.</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">Rapunzel had splendid long
                     hair, as fine as spun gold.</span>
                  When she
                  heard the sorceress's voice, she untied her braids, wound them around a window
                  hook, let her hair fall twenty yards to the ground, and the sorceress climbed up
                  it.</p>
               <p>A few years later it happened
                  that a king's son was riding through the forest.
                  As he approached the tower he
                  heard a song so beautiful that he stopped to listen. It was Rapunzel, who was
                  passing the time by singing with her sweet voice.
                  The prince wanted to climb up to
                  her, and looked for a door in the tower, but none was to be found.</p>
               <p>He rode home, but the song had so
                  touched his heart that he returned to the forest every day and listened to
                  it.
                  One time, as he was thus
                  standing behind a tree, he saw the sorceress approach, and heard her say:
                  </p>
               <p>Rapunzel, Rapunzel, Let down
                  your hair.</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">Then
                     Rapunzel let down her strands of hair, and the sorceress climbed up them to
                     her.</span></p>
               <p>"If that is the ladder into the
                  tower, then sometime I will try my luck."</p>
               <p>And the next day, just as it was beginning to get dark, he went to the tower and
                  called out:</p>
               <p>Rapunzel, Rapunzel, Let down your
                  hair.</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">The hair fell
                     down, and the prince climbed up.</span></p>
               <p><span class="hostile">At first Rapunzel was terribly
                     frightened when a man such as she had never seen before came in to her.</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">However,
                     the prince began talking to her in a very friendly manner, telling her that his
                     heart had been so touched by her singing that he could have no peace until he
                     had seen her in person. Then Rapunzel lost her fear, and when he asked her if
                     she would take him as her husband,</span>
                  she thought,
                  He would rather have me than
                  would old Frau Gothel."
                  <span class="benevolent">She said
                     yes and placed her hand into his.</span></p>
               <p>She said,
                  I would go with you gladly, but
                  I do not know how to get down. Every time that you come, bring a strand of silk,
                  from which I will weave a ladder. When it is finished I will climb down, and you
                  can take me away on your horse."
                  <span class="benevolent">They arranged that
                     he would come to her every evening, for the old woman came by day.</span></p>
               <p>The sorceress did not notice
                  what was happening
                  until
                  one day Rapunzel said to her,
                  Frau Gothel, tell me why it is
                  that you are more difficult to pull up than is the young prince, who will be
                  arriving any moment now?"</p>
               <p>"You godless child," cried the
                  sorceress. "What am I hearing from you? I thought I had removed you from the
                  whole world, but you have deceived me nonetheless."</p>
               <p><span class="hostile">In her
                     anger she grabbed Rapunzel's beautiful hair, wrapped it a few times around her
                     left hand, grasped a pair of scissors with her right hand, and snip snap, cut it
                     off. And she was so unmerciful that she took Rapunzel into a wilderness where
                     she suffered greatly.</span></p>
               <p><span class="hostile">On the
                     evening of the same day that she sent Rapunzel away, the sorceress tied the
                     cut-off hair to the hook at the top of the tower,</span>
                  and when the prince called
                  out:</p>
               <p>Rapunzel, Rapunzel, Let down your
                  hair.</p>
               <p><span class="hostile">she let down the
                     hair.</span></p>
               <p><span class="hostile">The prince climbed
                     up, but above, instead of his beloved Rapunzel, he found the sorceress, who
                     peered at him with poisonous and evil looks.</span></p>
               <p>"Aha!" she cried scornfully.
                  "You have come for your Mistress Darling, but that beautiful bird is no longer
                  sitting in her nest, nor is she singing any more. The cat got her, and will
                  scratch your eyes out as well. You have lost Rapunzel. You will never see her
                  again."</p>
               <p><span class="hostile">The prince was overcome with grief,
                     and in his despair he threw himself from the tower. He escaped with his life,
                     but the thorns into which he fell poked out his eyes. Blind, he wandered about
                     in the forest, eating nothing but grass and roots, and doing nothing but weeping
                     and wailing over the loss of his beloved wife.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">Thus he wandered about miserably
                     for some years, finally happening into the wilderness where Rapunzel lived
                     miserably with the twins that she had given birth to.</span></p>
               <p>He heard a voice and thought it
                  was familiar.
                  <span class="benevolent">He advanced toward
                     it, and as he approached, Rapunzel recognized him, and crying, threw her arms
                     around his neck. Two of her tears fell into his eyes, and they became clear once
                     again, and he could see as well as before. He led her into his kingdom, where he
                     was received with joy, and for a long time they lived happily and
                     satisfied.</span></p>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-14">
               <p>Es war einmal ein Mann und eine Frau, die hatten sich schon
                  lange ein Kind gewünscht und nie eins bekommen, endlich aber ward die Frau
                  guter Hoffnung. Diese Leute hatten in ihrem Hinterhaus ein kleines Fenster, daraus
                  konnten sie in den Garten einer Fee sehen, der voll von Blumen und Kräutern stand,
                  allerlei Art, keiner aber durfte es wagen, in den Gar- ten hineinzugehen. Eines
                  Tages stand die Frau an diesem Fenster und sah hinab, da erblickte
                  sie wunderschöne Rapunzeln auf einem Beet und wurde so lüstern
                  darnach, und wußte doch, daß sie keine davon bekommen
                  konnte, daß sie ganz abfiel und elend wurde. Ihr Mann erschrack
                  endlich und fragte nach der Ursache; „ach wenn ich keine von den Rapunzeln aus dem Garten
                  hinter unserm Haus zu essen kriege, so muß ich sterben.“ Der Mann,
                  welcher sie gar lieb hatte, dachte, es mag kosten was es will, so willst du ihr doch
                  welche schaffen, stieg eines Abends über die hohe Mauer und stach in aller Eile eine Hand voll Rapunzeln
                  aus, die er seiner Frau brachte. Die Frau
                  machte sich sogleich Salat daraus, und aß sie in vollem Heißhunger auf.
                  Sie hat- ten ihr aber so gut, so gut geschmeckt, daß sie
                  den andern Tag noch dreimal soviel Lust bekam. Der Mann sah wohl, daß keine Ruh
                  wäre, also stieg er noch einmal in den Garten, allein er erschrack gewaltig, als die
                  Fee darin stand und ihn heftig schalt, daß er es wage in ihren Gar- ten zu kommen
                  und daraus zu stehlen. Er ent- schuldigte sich, so gut er konnte, mit der Schwan-
                  gerschaft seiner Frau, und wie gefährlich es sey, ihr dann etwas
                  abzuschlagen, endlich sprach die Fee: „ich will mich zufrieden geben und dir selbst gestatten
                  Rapunzeln mitzunehmen, so viel du willst, wofern du mir das Kind geben wirst,
                  womit deine Frau jetzo geht.“ In der Angst sagte
                  der Mann alles zu, und als die Frau in Wochen kam, erschien
                  die Fee sogleich, nannte das kleine Mädchen Rapunzel und
                  nahm es mit sich fort. </p>
               <p>Dieses Rapunzel wurde das schönste Kind unter der
                  Sonne, wie es aber zwölf Jahr alt war, so schloß es die Fee in einen
                  hohen hohen Thurm, der hatte weder Thür noch Treppe, nur bloß ganz oben war ein
                  kleines Fensterchen. Wenn nun die Fee hinein wollte, so stand sie unten und rief:
                  </p>
               <p>„Rapunzel,
                  Rapunzel! laß mir dein Haar
                  herunter.“</p>
               <p>Rapunzel hatte aber prächtige Haare, fein wie gesponnen Gold, und
                  wenn die Fee so rief, so band
                  sie sie los, wickelte sie oben um
                  einen Fen- sterhaken und dann fielen die Haare zwanzig Ellen tief hinunter und die Fee
                  stieg daran
                  hinauf.</p>
               <p>Eines Tages kam nun ein junger Königs- sohn durch den Wald, wo der Thurm stand, sah
                  das schöne Rapunzel oben am Fenster ste- hen und hörte
                  sie mit so süßer Stimme singen, daß er sich
                  ganz in sie verliebte. Da aber keine Thüre im Thurm war
                  und keine Leiter so hoch reichen konnte, so gerieth er in Verzweiflung, doch ging
                  er
                  alle Tage in den Wald hin, bis er einstmals die Fee kommen sah, die sprach: </p>
               <p>„Rapunzel,
                  Rapunzel! laß dein Haar
                  herunter.“</p>
               <p>Darauf sah er wohl, auf welcher Leiter man in den Thurm kommen konnte. Er hatte sich
                  aber die Worte wohl gemerkt, die man sprechen muß- te, und des andern Tages, als es
                  dunkel war, ging er an den Thurm und sprach hinauf: </p>
               <p>„Rapunzel, Rapunzel, laß
                  dein Haar herunter!“</p>
               <p>da ließ sie die Haare los, und wie sie unten waren, machte er sich daran fest
                  und wurde hin-
                  aufgezogen. </p>
               <p>Rapunzel erschrack nun anfangs, bald aber gefiel ihr der junge König so gut, daß sie mit ihm
                  verabredete, er solle alle Tage kommen und hinaufgezogen werden. So lebten
                  sie lustig und in Freuden eine geraume Zeit,
                  und die Fee kam nicht dahinter, bis eines Tages das Rapunzel anfing und zu ihr sagte: „sag' sie mir doch Frau
                  Gothel, meine Kleiderchen werden mir so eng und wollen nicht
                  mehr passen.“ Ach du gottlo- ses Kind, sprach die
                  Fee, was muß ich von dir hören, und sie merkte gleich, wie sie betrogen wäre, und
                  war ganz aufgebracht. Da nahm sie die schönen Haare Rapunzels,
                  <span class="hostile">schlug sie
                     ein paar Mal um ihre linke Hand</span>, griff eine Scheere mit der rechten und
                  <span class="hostile">ritsch,
                     ritsch, waren sie abge- schnitten</span>. Darauf verwieß sie Rapunzel in eine Wüstenei, wo es ihr sehr kümmerlich erging und sie nach Verlauf
                  einiger Zeit Zwillinge, einen
                  Knaben und ein Mädchen gebar.</p>
               <p>Denselben Tag aber, wo sie Rapunzel ver- stoßen
                  hatte, machte die Fee Abends die abge- schnittenen Haare oben am Haken fest, und als
                  der Königssohn kam; </p>
               <p>„Rapunzel,
                  Rapunzel, laß dein Haar
                  herunter!“</p>
               <p>so ließ sie zwar die Haare nieder, allein wie erstaunte der Prinz, als er statt
                  seines gelieb- ten Rapunzels die Fee oben fand. „Weißt du was, sprach die erzürnte Fee,
                  Rapunzel ist für dich Bösewicht auf immer
                  verloren!“</p>
               <p>Da wurde der Königssohn ganz verzwei- felnd, und stürzte sich gleich den Thurm hinab,
                  das Leben brachte er davon, aber die beiden Augen hatte er sich ausgefallen, traurig
                  irrte er im Wald herum, aß nichts als Gras und Wurzeln, und that nichts als weinen.
                  Einige Jahre nachher geräth er in jene Wüstenei, wo Rapunzel kümmerlich
                  mit ihren Kindern lebte, ihre Stimme däuchte ihm so bekannt, in dem- selben
                  Augenblick erkannte sie ihn auch und fällt ihm um den
                  Hals. Zwei von ihren Thrä- nen fallen in seine Augen, da werden sie wie-
                  der klar, und er kann damit sehen, wie sonst. </p>
            </div>
         </div>
      </main>
      <!--#include virtual="footer.xhtml" --></body>
</html>