<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Little Red Cap</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css"/>
      <link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/jpg" href="red-riding-hood.png"/>
   </head>
   <body><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
      <main><!--#include virtual="storynav.xhtml" -->
         <h1>Little Red Cap</h1>
         <div class="grid-story">
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-11">English Version</div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-13">German Version</div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-12">
               <p>Once upon a time there was a sweet little
                  girl. <span class="benevolent">Everyone who saw her liked her</span>, but
                  most of all her grandmother, who did not know what to give
                  the child next. Once <span class="benevolent">she gave her a little cap made of red velvet</span>. Because
                  it suited her so well, and she wanted to wear it all the time, she came to be known
                  as Little Red Cap.</p>
               <p>One day her mother said to her, "Come Little Red
                  Cap. Here is a piece of cake and a bottle of wine. Take them to
                  your grandmother. She is sick and weak, and they will do her well. Mind your
                  manners and give her my greetings. Behave yourself on the way, and do not leave
                  the path, or you might fall down and break the glass, and then there will be
                  nothing for your grandmother. And when you enter her
                  parlor, don't forget to say 'Good morning,' and don't peer into all the corners
                  first."</p>
               <p>"I'll do everything just
                  right," said Little Red Cap,
                  <span class="benevolent">shaking her mother's hand.</span></p>
               <p>The grandmother
                  <span class="ambiguous">lived out in the
                     woods</span>, a half hour from the village. When <span class="ambiguous">Little Red
                     Cap entered the woods</span>
                  <span class="ambiguous">a wolf came up to her</span>. She
                  did not know what a wicked animal he was, <span class="ambiguous">and was not afraid of him</span>.</p>
               <p>
                  "Good day to you, Little Red Cap."
                  </p>
               <p>
                  "Thank you,
                  wolf."
                  </p>
               <p>
                  "Where are you going so early,
                  Little Red Cap?"
                  </p>
               <p>
                  "To grandmother's."
                  </p>
               <p>
                  "And what are you carrying under
                  your apron?"
                  </p>
               <p>
                  "<span class="ambiguous">Grandmother is sick and weak</span>, and <span class="benevolent">I am taking her some cake and wine</span>. <span class="benevolent">We baked
                     yesterday</span>, and they should be good for her and give her
                  strength."
                  </p>
               <p>
                  "Little Red Cap, just where does your
                  grandmother live?"
                  </p>
               <p>"Her house is good quarter
                  hour from here in the woods, under the three large oak trees. There's a hedge of
                  hazel bushes there. You must know the place," said Little Red Cap.</p>
               <p>The wolf thought to himself, "Now that sweet young
                  thing is a tasty bite for me. She will taste even better than
                  the old woman. You must be sly, and you can
                  catch them both."</p>
               <p>He <span class="ambiguous">walked
                     along a little while with Little Red
                     Cap</span>, then he said, "Little Red
                  Cap, just look at the beautiful flowers that are all around us.
                  Why don't you go and take a look? And I don't believe you can hear how
                  beautifully the birds are singing. You are walking along as though you were on
                  your way to school. It is very beautiful in the woods."</p>
               <p>Little Red Cap
                  <span class="ambiguous">opened her eyes</span>
                  and when <span class="benevolent">she saw the
                     sunbeams dancing to and fro through the trees and how the ground was covered
                     with beautiful flowers</span>, she thought, "If a take a fresh bouquet to
                  grandmother, she will be very pleased.
                  Anyway, it is still early, and I'll be home on time." And <span class="benevolent">she ran off the path
                     into the woods looking for flowers</span>. Each time <span class="benevolent">she picked one</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">she thought that she
                     could see an even more beautiful one a little way off</span>, and <span class="benevolent">she ran after it, going
                     further and further into the woods</span>. But the wolf ran straight to the
                  grandmother's house and knocked on the
                  door.</p>
               <p>
                  "Who's there?"
                  </p>
               <p>
                  "Little Red Cap. I'm bringing you some
                  cake and wine. Open the door."
                  </p>
               <p>"Just press the
                  latch," called out the grandmother.
                  "I'm too weak to get
                  up."</p>
               <p>The wolf pressed the latch, and the door opened. He stepped inside, went straight
                  to
                  the grandmother's bed, and <span class="hostile">ate her up</span>. Then he put on her clothes, put her cap on his
                  head, got into her bed, and pulled the curtains shut.</p>
               <p>Little Red Cap
                  <span class="benevolent">had run after the
                     flowers</span>. After <span class="benevolent">she had gathered so many that she could not carry any
                     more</span>, <span class="benevolent">she
                     remembered her grandmother</span>, and then <span class="benevolent">continued on her way to her
                     house</span>. <span class="ambiguous">She
                     found, to her surprise, that the door was open</span>. <span class="ambiguous">She walked into the parlor</span>, and
                  everything looked so strange that she thought, "Oh, my God, why am I so afraid? I usually like it at
                  grandmother's."</p>
               <p>She called out, "Good
                  morning!" but <span class="ambiguous">received no answer.</span></p>
               <p>Then <span class="ambiguous">she went to the
                     bed</span> and <span class="ambiguous">pulled
                     back the curtains</span>. Grandmother was lying there with her cap pulled down
                  over her face and looking very strange.</p>
               <p>
                  "Oh, grandmother, what
                  big ears you have!"
                  </p>
               <p>
                  "All the better to hear you
                  with."
                  </p>
               <p>
                  "Oh, grandmother, what
                  big eyes you have!"
                  </p>
               <p>
                  "All the better to see you
                  with."
                  </p>
               <p>
                  "Oh, grandmother, what
                  big hands you have!"
                  </p>
               <p>
                  "All the better to grab you
                  with!"
                  </p>
               <p>
                  "Oh, grandmother, what a
                  horribly big mouth you have!"
                  </p>
               <p>
                  "All the better to eat you
                  with!"
                  </p>
               <p>The wolf had scarcely finished speaking when he jumped from the bed with a single
                  leap and <span class="hostile">ate up poor Little Red Cap</span>. As soon as the
                  wolf had satisfied his desires, he climbed back into bed, fell asleep, and began to
                  snore very loudly.</p>
               <p>A huntsman was just passing by. He thought, "The old woman is snoring so loudly. You had better see
                  if something is wrong with her."</p>
               <p>He stepped into the parlor, and when he approached the bed, he saw the wolf lying
                  there. "So here I find you, you
                  old sinner," he said. "I have been hunting for you a long
                  time."</p>
               <p>He was about to aim his rifle when it occurred to him that the wolf might have eaten
                  the grandmother, and that she still might be
                  rescued. So instead of shooting, he took a pair of scissors and began to cut open
                  the wolf's belly. After a few cuts he saw the red cap shining through., and after
                  a
                  few more cuts the girl
                  <span class="ambiguous">jumped out</span>,
                  crying, "Oh, I was so
                  frightened! It was so dark inside the wolf's body!"</p>
               <p>And then the grandmothercame out as well, alive but
                  hardly able to breathe. Then Little Red Cap
                  fetched some large stones. She filled the wolf's body with them, and when he woke
                  up
                  and tried to run away, the stones were so heavy that he immediately fell down
                  dead.</p>
               <p>The three of them were happy. The huntsman skinned the wolf and went home with the
                  pelt. The grandmother
                  <span class="benevolent">ate the cake and drank the
                     wine</span> that Little Red Cap had brought. And Little Red Cap thought, "As long as I live, I will never leave the path and run
                  off into the woods by myself if mother tells me not to."</p>
               <p>They also tell how Little Red Cap was <span class="ambiguous">taking some baked things to her grandmother
                     another time</span>, when <span class="hostile">another wolf spoke to her and wanted
                     her to leave the path</span>. But Little Red Cap
                  <span class="ambiguous">took care and went
                     straight to grandmother's</span>. <span class="ambiguous">She told her that she had seen the wolf, and
                     that he had wished her a good day, but had stared at her in a wicked
                     manner</span>. "If we
                  hadn't been on a public road, he would have eaten me up," she
                  said.</p>
               <p>"Come," said the
                  grandmother. "Let's lock the door, so he can't
                  get in."</p>
               <p>Soon afterward the wolf knocked on the door and called out, "Open up, grandmother.
                  It's Little Red Cap, and I'm bringing you
                  some baked things."</p>
               <p>They remained silent, and did not open the door. Gray-Head crept around the house
                  several times, and finally jumped onto the roof. He wanted to wait until Little Red Cap went home that evening, then follow her and eat her
                  up in the darkness. But the <span class="ambiguous">grandmother saw what he was up
                     to</span>. There was a large stone trough in front of the house.</p>
               <p>"Fetch a bucket, Little Red Cap," she said to
                  the child. "Yesterday I cooked some sausage.
                  Carry the water that I boiled them with to the trough."
                  <span class="ambiguous">Little Red Cap carried water until the
                     large, large trough was clear full</span>. The smell of sausage arose into the
                  wolf's nose. He sniffed and looked down, stretching his neck so long that he could
                  no longer hold himself, and he began to slide. He slid off the roof, fell into the
                  trough, and drowned. And <span class="benevolent">Little Red Cap returned home
                     happily</span>, and no one harmed her.</p>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-14">
               <p>Es war einmal eine kleine süße Dirn, die hatte jedermann
                  lieb, der sie nur ansah, am al- lerliebsten aber ihre
                  Großmutter, die wußte gar nicht, was
                  sie alles dem Kind geben sollte. Ein- mal schenkte sie
                  ihm ein Käppchen von rothem Sammet, und weil ihm das so wohl stand, und es nichts anders mehr tragen wollte,
                  hieß es nur das Rothkäppchen; da sagte einmal seine Mutter zu ihm: „komm, Rothkäppchen, da hast du ein Stück Kuchen
                  und ein Bouteille mit Wein, die bring der Großmutter hinaus, sie ist krank und schwach, da wird
                  sie sich daran laben; sey hübsch artig
                  und grüß sie von mir, geh auch ordentlich und lauf nicht
                  vom Weg ab, sonst fällst du, und zerbrichst
                  das Glas, dann hat die kranke Großmutter
                  nichts.“</p>
               <p>Rothkäppchen versprach der Mutter recht gehorsam
                  zu seyn. Die Großmutter aber wohn- te draußen im Wald,
                  eine halbe Stunde vom Dorf. Wie nun Rothkäppchen in den Wald
                  kam, begegnete ihm der Wolf, Rothkäppchen aber wußte
                  nicht, was das für ein böses Thier war, und fürchtete sich nicht vor ihm. „Guten Tag, Rothkäppchen.“
                  „Schön Dank Wolf.“
                  „Wo willst du so früh hinaus, Rothkäpp-
                  chen,“
                  „zur Großmutter.“
                  „Was trägst du unter der Schürze?“
                  „die Großmutter ist krank und schwach, da
                  bring ich ihr Kuchen und Wein, gestern haben wir
                  gebacken, da soll sie sich
                  stärken.“
                  „Rothkäppchen, wo
                  wohnt deine Großmutter?“
                  „Noch eine gute Vier- telstunde im
                  Wald, unter den drei großen Eich- bäumen, da steht ihr Haus, unten sind die
                  Nußhecken das wirst du ja wissen“ sagte Roth-
                  käppchen. Der Wolf gedacht bei sich, das ist ein guter fetter Bissen
                  für mich, wie fängst dus an, daß du den kriegst: „hör Rothkäpp- chen, sagte
                  er, hast du die schönen Blumen nicht gesehen, die im
                  Walde stehen, warum guckst du nicht einmal um
                  dich, ich glaube, du hörst gar nicht darauf, wie die Vöglein lieblich singen,
                  du gehst ja für dich hin als wenn du im Dorf in die
                  Schule gingst, und ist so lustig haußen in dem Wald.“</p>
               <p>Rothkäppchen schlug die Augen auf, und sah wie die Sonne durch die
                  Bäume gebrochen war und alles voll schöner Blumen stand; da gedacht es: ei! wenn ich der Großmutter einen
                  Strauß mitbringe, der wird ihr auch lieb
                  seyn, es ist noch früh, ich komm doch zu rechter Zeit an, und sprang in den Wald und
                  suchte Blu- men. Und wenn es eine gebrochen hatte,
                  meint es, dort stünd noch eine schönere und lief dar- nach und immer
                  weiter in den Wald hinein. Der Wolf aber ging geradeswegs nach dem Haus der
                  Großmutter und klopfte an die Thü- re. „Wer ist draußen“
                  „das Rothkäppchen, ich bring dir Kuchen
                  und Wein, mach mir auf.“
                  „Drück nur auf die Klinke,
                  rief die Großmutter, ich bin zu schwach und kann
                  nicht aufstehen.“ Der Wolf drückte an der Klinke, und die Thüre
                  sprang auf. Da ging er hin- ein, geradezu an das Bett der Großmutter und <span class="hostile">verschluckte sie</span>.
                  Dann nahm er ihre Kleider, that sie an, setzte
                  sich ihre Haube auf, legte sich in ihr Bett und zog die Vorhänge vor.</p>
               <p>Rothkäppchen aber war herum gelaufen nach Blumen, und erst als
                  es so viel hatte, daß es keine mehr tragen
                  konnte, machte es sich auf den Weg zu der Großmutter. Wie es ankam stand die Thüre
                  auf, darüber verwunderte es sich, und wie
                  es in die Stube kam, sahs so seltsam darin aus, daß es dacht: ei! du mein Gott wie ängstlich wird mirs heut zu Muth,
                  und bin sonst so gern bei der Großmutter. Drauf
                  ging es zum Bett und zog die Vorhänge zurück, da lag die Großmutter und hatte die Haube tief ins Gesicht gesetzt und sah so
                  wun- derlich aus. „Ei Großmutter, was hast du für große Ohren!“
                  „daß ich dich besser hö- ren kann.“
                  „Ei Großmutter, was hast du für große Augen!“
                  „daß ich dich besser se- hen kann.“
                  „Ei Großmutter was hast du für große Hände!“
                  „daß ich dich besser packen kann.“
                  „Aber Großmutter, was hast du für ein entsetzlich großes
                  Maul!“
                  „daß ich dich besser fressen kann.“ Damit sprang der Wolf aus
                  dem Bett, <span class="hostile">sprang auf
                     das arme Rothkäppchen</span>, und <span class="hostile">verschlang es.</span></p>
               <p>Wie der Wolf den fetten Bissen erlangt hatte, legte er sich wieder ins Bett, schlief
                  ein und fing an, überlaut zu schnarchen. Der Jä- ger ging eben vorbei und gedacht
                  wie kann die alte Frau so schnarchen, du mußt einmal nach-
                  sehen. Da trat er hinein und wie er vors Bett kam, da lag der Wolf den er lange ge-
                  sucht, der hat gewiß die Großmutter
                  gefressen vielleicht ist sie noch zu
                  retten, ich will nicht schießen, dachte der Jäger. Da nahm er die Scheere und
                  schnitt ihm den Bauch auf, und wie er ein paar Schnitte gethan, da sah er das rothe
                  Käppchen leuchten, und wie er noch ein wenig geschnitten, da sprang
                  das Mädchen her- aus und rief: „ach wie war ich erschrocken, was wars so dunkel in dem
                  Wolf seinem Leib;“ und dann kam die Großmutter auch lebendig heraus. Rothkäppchen aber holte große schwere Steine, damit füllten sie dem
                  Wolf den Leib, und wie er aufwachte, wollte er fortspringen, aber die Steine waren
                  so schwer, daß er sich todt fiel.</p>
               <p>Da waren alle drei vergnügt, der Jäger nahm den Pelz vom Wolf, die Großmutter aßden Kuchen und trank den Wein, den Roth-
                  käppchen gebracht hatte, und Rothkäppchen ge- dacht
                  bei sich: du willst dein Lebtag nicht wie- der allein vom Weg ab in den Wald laufen,
                  wenn dirs die Mutter verboten hat.</p>
               <p>Es wird auch erzählt, daß einmal, als Roth- käppchen der alten
                  Großmutter wieder Gebacke- nes brachte, ein
                  anderer Wolf ihm zugesprochen und es vom Weg ableiten wollen. Rothkäpp-
                  chen aber hütete sich und ging gerad fort ihres Wegs, und sagte der
                  Großmutter daß sie den Wolf gesehen, daß er ihm guten Tag gewünscht aber so bös
                  aus den Augen geguckt; „wenns nicht
                  auf offner Straße gewesen, er hätt mich gefressen.“
                  „Komm, sagte die Großmutter wir wollen die Thüre
                  verschließen, daß er nicht herein kann.“ Bald darnach klopfte der
                  Wolf an und rief: „mach auf,
                  Großmutter, ich bin das Rothkäppchen, ich bring dir
                  Gebackenes.“ Sie schwiegen aber still und machten die Thüre nicht
                  auf, da ging der Böse etlichemal um das Haus und sprang endlich aufs Dach, und
                  wollte warten bis Rothkäppchen Abends nach Haus ging, dann wollt' er
                  ihm nachschleichen und wollts in der Dunkelheit fressen. Aber die
                  Großmutter merkte, was er im Sinn hatte; da
                  stand vor dem Haus ein großer Steintrog: „hol' den Eimer, Rothkäppchen, gestern
                  hab ich Würste gekocht, da trag das Wasser, worin sie gekocht sind, in den Trog.“
                  Rothkäppchen trug so lange bis der große, große Trog ganz voll war.
                  Da stieg der Geruch von den Wür- sten dem Wolf in die Nase, er schnupperte und
                  guckte hinab, endlich machte er den Hals so lang, daß er sich nicht mehr halten
                  konnte, er fing an zu rutschen, und rutschte vom Dach herab und gerade in den großen
                  Trog hinein und ertrank. Rothkäppchen aber ging
                  fröhlich und sicher nach Haus.</p>
            </div>
         </div>
      </main>
      <!--#include virtual="footer.xhtml" --></body>
</html>