<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Sweetheart Roland</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css"/>
      <link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/jpg" href="red-riding-hood.png"/>
   </head>
   <body><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
      <main><!--#include virtual="storynav.xhtml" -->
         <h1>Sweetheart Roland</h1>
         <div class="grid-story">
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-11">English Version</div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-13">German Version</div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-12">
               <p>Once upon a time there was a woman who was trulya witch. <span class="ambiguous">She had two
                     daughters,</span>
                  one ugly and wicked, whom <span class="benevolent">she
                     loved because she was her own daughter,</span> and one
                  beautiful and good, whom <span class="hostile">she hated, because she was her
                     stepdaughter.</span>
                  <span class="ambiguous">The stepdaughter had a beautiful apron,</span>
                  <span class="hostile">which the other girl
                     wanted so much that she became envious, </span>and <span class="hostile">she told her
                     mother that she just had to have that apron.</span>
                  "Be still, my child," said the old
                  woman, "and <span class="benevolent">you shall have
                     it.</span> Your <span class="hostile">stepsister has long deserved to die,</span> and tonight when
                  <span class="ambiguous">she is asleep</span>
                  <span class="hostile">I will come
                     and chop off her head.</span> Just be sure to lie down at the far side of the
                  bed, and <span class="hostile">push her close to the front."</span> It would
                  have been all over with the poor girl, but just then <span class="ambiguous">she was standing in a corner,
                     and she overheard everything.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">She was not
                     allowed to go outside all day long,</span> and at bedtime <span class="hostile">her wicked stepsister had her get into
                     bed first,</span> so she would be lying next to the wall. However, after
                  the witch's daughter fell asleep, <span class="hostile">the
                     stepdaughter gently pushed her to the front
                     side of the bed,</span> and <span class="benevolent">she took her place back against the wall.</span> In <span class="hostile">the night the old
                     woman crept into the bedroom holding an ax</span> in her right
                  hand while <span class="hostile">feeling with her left hand for anyone lying at the front of the bed. </span>Then
                  <span class="hostile">she
                     grasped the axe with both hands and chopped off her own child's head.</span></p>
               <p>After the witch had gone away, <span class="ambiguous">the
                     girl got up and went to her sweetheart, whose name was
                     Roland,</span> and knocked at his door. When he came out, she said to him, "Listen, dearest
                  Roland, we must flee at once. <span class="hostile">My stepmother tried to kill me,</span>
                  but <span class="hostile">she killed her own child instead.</span> When daylight comes, and she sees
                  what she has done, <span class="hostile">we'll be lost."</span>
                  "You had better take her magic
                  wand," said Roland, "or we will not be able to escape if <span class="hostile">she comes after
                     us."</span>
                  <span class="hostile">The girl got the
                     magic wand,</span> then <span class="ambiguous">she took the dead
                     girl's head and dropped three drops of blood onto the floor,</span> one in front
                  of the bed, one in the kitchen, and one on the steps. Then <span class="ambiguous">she hurried away with her
                     sweetheart.</span></p>
               <p>The next morning when the old witch got up, <span class="benevolent">she called her
                     daughter, wanting to give her the apron.</span> But <span class="ambiguous">the daughter did not come.</span> So
                  she shouted, "Where are
                  you?"
                  "Here on the steps. I'm
                  sweeping," answered the first drop of blood. The <span class="ambiguous">old woman went out, but seeing no one</span> on
                  the steps, she shouted again,
                  "Where are you?"
                  "Here in the kitchen.
                  I'm warming myself," shouted the second drop of blood. <span class="ambiguous">She went into the kitchen, but
                     found no one.</span> So she
                  shouted again, "Where are you?"
                  "Here in the bed. I'm
                  sleeping," shouted the third drop of blood. <span class="ambiguous">She went into the bedroom and approached the
                     bed. What did she see there?</span>
                  <span class="hostile">Her own
                     child swimming in blood</span> and <span class="hostile">whose head she herself had cut
                     off.</span></p>
               <p><span class="hostile">The witch flew
                     into a rage,</span> jumped to the window, and as <span class="hostile">she could see far into the world,</span>
                  <span class="hostile">she saw
                     her stepdaughter hurrying away with her
                     sweetheart Roland.</span>
                  "That won't help you!" shouted the
                  witch.
                  "Even if you've already gone a
                  long way, you won't escape from me!" She put on her many-league
                  boots, in which <span class="hostile">she
                     covered an hour's walk with every step,</span> and it was not long before <span class="hostile">she
                     overtook them.</span> However, <span class="ambiguous">when the girl saw the old woman</span> striding toward them,
                  <span class="benevolent">she used
                     the magic wand to transform her sweetheart Roland into a lake,</span> and <span class="benevolent">herself into a
                     duck swimming in the middle of the
                     lake.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">The
                     witch stood on the shore and threw in pieces of bread, trying
                     with great effort to lure the duck to her.</span> But <span class="hostile">the duck did
                     not give in,</span> and <span class="hostile">the
                     old woman had to return home</span> that night
                  without success. Afterward <span class="benevolent">the girl and
                     her sweetheart Roland returned to their natural shapes,</span> and they walked on
                  through the whole night until daybreak.<span class="benevolent">Then the girl
                     transformed herself into a beautiful flower</span> in the
                  middle of a briar hedge, and<span class="benevolent">her sweetheart Roland into a fiddler.</span></p>
               <p>It was not long before <span class="hostile">the witch came striding up toward
                     them.</span>
                  She said to the musician, "Dear
                  musician, <span class="hostile">may I pick that beautiful flower for myself?"</span>
                  "Oh, yes," he replied. "And <span class="hostile">I will play
                     for you</span> while you're doing it."
                  <span class="hostile">She crawled hastily into the
                     hedge</span> and <span class="hostile">was just about to pick the flower, knowing perfectly well who
                     it was,</span> when <span class="hostile">he began to play.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">She was forced to
                     dance, whether she wanted to or not, for it was magic dance music.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">The faster he
                     played, the more violently she was forced to jump.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">The thorns tore
                     the clothes off her body, pricking her until she bled,</span> and <span class="hostile">as he did not
                     stop, she had to dance until she fell down dead.</span></p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">They were now
                     free,</span> so Roland said, "Now I will go to my father and <span class="benevolent">arrange for our
                     wedding</span>."
                  "I'll stay here and wait for
                  you," said the girl.
                  "And I'll <span class="benevolent">transform myself into a
                     red boundary stone, so that no one will recognize me."</span> So
                  Roland set forth, and <span class="benevolent">the girl, in the shape of a red boundary
                     stone, stood there and waited for her sweetheart.</span> But when Roland arrived
                  home, <span class="hostile">he
                     was snared by another woman,</span> who <span class="hostile">caused him to forget the
                     girl.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">The poor girl
                     waited there a long time.</span> Finally, when he failed to return, <span class="hostile">she grew sad</span> and <span class="hostile">transformed
                     herself into a flower</span>, thinking, "Someone will surely come this way and
                  trample me down."</p>
               <p>However, it happened that <span class="ambiguous">a shepherd who was herding his sheep in the field saw the
                     flower.</span> As it was so beautiful,
                  <span class="benevolent">he
                     picked it, took it home with him, and put it away in his chest.</span> From that
                  time forth, strange things happened in the shepherd's house. <span class="benevolent">When he arose in the
                     morning all the work was already done.</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">The room
                     was swept,</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">the table
                     and benches cleaned,</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">the fire
                     on the hearth was lighted,</span> and <span class="benevolent">the water was fetched,</span> and at
                  noon, when he came home, <span class="benevolent">the table was already set,</span> and <span class="benevolent">a good dinner
                     served.</span> He didn't know how this happened, for <span class="ambiguous">he never saw anyone in his
                     house,</span> and no one could have hidden himself in it. <span class="benevolent">He was, of course, pleased
                     with this good service,</span> but with time he became so afraid that <span class="ambiguous">he went
                     to a wise woman and asked for her
                     advice.</span> The wise woman said, "There is magic behind it. Be on the watch very early
                  some morning, and if anything is moving in the room, if you see anything, no
                  matter what it is, throw a white cloth over it, and then the magic will be
                  stopped."</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">The
                     shepherd did what she told him to do,</span> and the next morning just at dawn,
                  <span class="ambiguous">he saw
                     the chest open and the flower come
                     out.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">He quickly
                     jumped towards it and threw a white cloth over it.</span> Instantly <span class="benevolent">the
                     transformation came to an end, and a beautiful girl stood
                     before him,</span> who <span class="benevolent">admitted to him that she had been the flower,</span> and that
                  <span class="benevolent">she
                     had been doing his housekeeping.</span>
                  <span class="ambiguous">She told him her story.</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">He liked
                     her and asked her to marry him,</span> but she answered, "No," for <span class="benevolent">she wanted to remain
                     faithful to her sweetheart Roland,</span> even though <span class="hostile">he had abandoned her.</span>
                  Nevertheless, <span class="benevolent">she promised not to go away,</span> and to <span class="benevolent">continue keeping house
                     for the shepherd.</span> The time drew near when <span class="ambiguous">Roland was to be married.</span> According to
                  an old custom in that country, it was announced that <span class="benevolent">all the girls were to attend the
                     wedding</span> and <span class="benevolent">sing in honor of the bridal pair.</span> When the faithful
                  girl heard this, <span class="hostile">she grew so sad that she thought her heart would break,</span> and <span class="hostile">she did not want to go.</span> But
                  <span class="ambiguous">the other
                     girls came and took her.</span>
                  <span class="hostile">When it was her turn to sing, she declined,</span> until at last <span class="hostile">she was the only one left, and
                     then she could not refuse.</span> But when <span class="benevolent">she began her song, and it reached
                     Roland's ears,</span>
                  he jumped up and shouted, "I know
                  that voice. That is the true bride. I do not want anyone
                  else." Everything he had forgotten, and which had vanished from his
                  mind, had suddenly come home again to his heart. Thus <span class="benevolent">the faithful girl was
                     married to her sweetheart Roland.</span>
                  <span class="benevolent">Her grief came to an end, and
                     her joy began.</span></p>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-14">
               <p>Es war einmal eine Mutter, die hatte nur ihre rechte Tochter lieb und <span class="hostile">haßte ihre Stief-
                     tochter</span>, die doch
                  tausendmal schöner und besser war. Einmal hatte diese eine
                  schöne Schürze, darüber war die andere neidisch und
                  verlangte von der Mutter, sie solle ihr diese Schürze verschaffen. Die Mutter sagte:
                  „sey still, mein liebes
                  Kind, du sollst sie haben, deine Stief- schwester hat doch schon lange
                  den Tod ver- dient, heut Nacht leg dich hinten ins Bett und <span class="hostile">schieb sie recht vorne hin</span>, dann
                  will ich kom- men, wenn sie schläft, und <span class="hostile">will ihr den Kopf
                     abhauen.</span>“ Die Stiefschwester
                  aber hatte in einer Ecke gestanden und alles mit angehört, da ließ sie die böse Schwester erst zu
                  Bett ge- hen, daß sie hinten hin kam, wie sie aber ein- geschlafen war, <span class="hostile">hub sie
                     sie auf</span> und legte sie vorne hin, sich aber ganz hinten. Da kam die
                  Mutter in der Nacht geschlichen, fühlte erst ob vorne jemand lag
                  und schlief, dann faßte sie die Axt mit beiden Händen und <span class="hostile">hieb und hieb
                     ihrem eigenen Kind den Kopf ab</span>.</p>
               <p>Wie sie fortgegangen war, stand das Mäd- chen auf
                  und ging zu seinem Liebsten Roland, klopfte an und rief: „hör, wir müssen fort, die
                  Stiefmutter hat ihr eigen Kind
                  todtgeschlagen, und meint sie hätte mich
                  getroffen, kommt der Tag und sie sieht, was
                  sie gethan, so bin ich verloren; da hab ich
                  ihren Zauberstab genom- men, damit können wir uns schon helfen.“ Der
                  Liebste Roland stand auf, und sie nahmen erst den todten Kopf und tröpfelten drei
                  Bluts- tropfen, einen vors Bett, einen in die Küche und einen auf die Treppe; darauf
                  gingen sie fort. Am Morgen, als die Mutter aufgestan- den
                  war, rief sie ihrer Tochter: „komm, du sollst jetzt
                  die Schürze haben,“ die Tochter kam aber
                  nicht. „Wo bist du?“
                  „Ei! hier auf der Treppe, die
                  kehr ich,“ sprach der eine Blutstropfen. Da ging sie hinaus; auf der Treppe war niemand: „wo bist du
                  denn?“
                  „Ei! hier in der Küche, beim
                  Feuer, da wärm ich mich!“ rief der zweite Blutstropfen; sie ging in die Küche, aber sie sah niemand:
                  „wo bist du denn aber?“
                  „Ach! hier am Bett, da schlaf
                  ich!“
                  sie lief in die Kammer ans Bett, da sah sie ihr eigen Kind in seinem Blu-
                  te schwimmen. Da erschrack sie und merkte, daß
                  sie betrogen war, und ward zornig, weil sie aber eine Hexe war, konnte
                  sie weit in die Welt hineinsehen, und sah ihre Stieftochter mit ihren Liebsten forteilen, und sie waren schon weit
                  weg. Alsbald zog sie ihre Meilenstiefeln an, und ging ihnen nach,
                  hatte sie auch bald eingeholt; das Mädchen aber
                  hatte durch den Zauberstab gewußt, daß sie verfolgt würden, und sich in einen See,
                  ihren Liebsten Roland aber in eine Ente verwandelt, die schwamm darauf. Als nun die
                  Stiefmutter herzu kam, setzte sie sich an das Ufer und suchte die
                  Ente mit Brod zu locken, aber es war alle Mühe ver- geblich, am Abend mußte
                  sie unverrichteter Sa- che heimgehen. Die zwei nahmen ihre mensch-
                  liche Gestalt wieder an, und gingen weiter, wie aber der Tag anbrach wurden sie
                  wieder von der Hexe verfolgt. Da verwandelte sich das Mädchen in eine schöne Blume, die mitten in einer Dornhecke stand,
                  ihren Liebsten Roland aber in einen Geigenspieler. Wie die Alte an- kam, fragte sie den Spielmann, ob sie sich die Blume abbrechen dürfe, „o ja, antwortete der, nur will ich dazu
                  aufspielen.“ Da kroch sie in die Hecke und
                  suchte zu der Blume zu reichen; wie sie aber mitten darin
                  war, fing er an zu spielen, und da mußte sie darnach <span class="ambiguous">tanzen und tanzen ohne
                     Aufhören</span>, daß ihr die <span class="hostile">Dornen die Kleider vom Leibe rissen und sie blutig
                     stachen</span>, so lang, bis sie todt hinfiel.</p>
               <p>Da waren beide frei. Roland aber sprach zu dem Mädchen:
                  „nun will ich heim gehen zu
                  meinem Vater, und die Hochzeit bestellen.“
                  „Da will ich mich indessen
                  in einen rothen Feld- stein verwandeln, und hier bleiben und warten, bis du
                  wieder kommst.“ Da <span class="ambiguous">stand es als ein
                     rother Stein</span> und <span class="ambiguous">wartete lang auf seinen Lieb- sten</span>, aber der kam
                  nicht wieder und hatte sie vergessen,
                  und als er gar nicht kommen wollte, ward es ganz traurig
                  und verwandelte sich in eine Blume, und dachte, es wird mich ja bald jemand
                  umtreten. Ein Schäfer aber fand die Blume, und weil sie so schön war, nahm er sie
                  mit sich, und legte sie daheim in seinen Ka- sten. Von nun an aber ging es
                  wunderlich bei dem Schäfer zu: wenn er des Morgens aufwachte, so war alles im Haus
                  gethan, ge- kehrt, geputzt, Feuer angemacht, und kam er Mittags nach Haus, war das
                  Essen gekocht, der Tisch gedeckt und aufgetragen; er konnte aber nicht begreifen,
                  wie das zuging, sah auch niemals einen Menschen in seinem Haus. Und ob es ihm gleich
                  wohl gefiel, so ward ihm doch zuletzt Angst dabei, und er fragte eine weise Frau
                  darüber, die sagte, das sey Zauberei, er solle einmal Morgens früh Acht geben, ob
                  sich etwas in der Stube bewege, und wenn er et- was sehe ein weißes Tuch darüber
                  werfen. Das that er, und am andern Morgen sah er, wie sich der Kasten aufthat und
                  die Blume her- auskam, er sprang herzu und warf ein Tuch darüber, da war die
                  Verwandlung vorbei, und das schöne Mädchen, das
                  sein Liebster Roland vergessen hat, stand vor ihm. Der Schäfer wollte es heirathen, es
                  <span class="hostile">sagte aber nein</span>,
                  es
                  <span class="hostile">wolle ihm nur dienen und
                     haushalten</span>. Bald darauf hörte es, daß Roland
                  Hochzeit halten und eine andere heirathen wolle; dabei mußte jeder im Land nach
                  einem alten Gebrauch, sin- gen. Da kam das treue Mädchen auch
                  hin, und wollte immer nicht singen, bis zu allerletzt, da mußte es; wie es aber anfing, da erkannte es Roland gleich, sprang auf und sagte: das sey seine rechte Braut, er wolle keine andere und
                  vermählte sich mir ihr; da war sein Leid zu End und seine Freude ging
                  an.</p>
            </div>
         </div>
      </main>
      <!--#include virtual="footer.xhtml" --></body>
</html>