<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>The Six Swans</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css"/>
      <link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/jpg" href="red-riding-hood.png"/>
   </head>
   <body><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
      <main><!--#include virtual="storynav.xhtml" -->
         <h1>The Six Swans</h1>
         <div class="grid-story">
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-11">English Version</div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-13">German Version</div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-12">
               <p>A king was once hunting in a great forest, and he chased his prey so eagerly that
                  none of
                  his men could follow him. As evening approached he stopped and looked around, and
                  saw
                  that he was lost. He looked for a way out of the woods, but he could not find one.
                  Then
                  he saw an old woman with a bobbing head who approached him. <span class="ambiguous">She was a witch.</span></p>
               <p>"My dear woman,"
                  he said to her, "can you show me the way
                  through the woods?"</p>
               <p>"Oh, yes, your majesty,"
                  she answered, "I can indeed.
                  However, there is one condition, and if you do not fulfill it, you will never get
                  out of these woods, and will die here of hunger."</p>
               <p>"What sort of condition is
                  it?" asked the king.</p>
               <p>"I have a daughter," said the old woman, who is as beautiful as anyone you could
                  find in all the world, and who well deserves to become your wife. If you will make
                  her your queen, I will show you the way out of the woods."</p>
               <p>The king was so frightened that he consented, and the <span class="ambiguous">old woman led him to her cottage</span>, where
                  her <span class="ambiguous">daughter was sitting by the fire</span>. <span class="ambiguous">She received the king</span> as if
                  she had been expecting him. <span class="ambiguous">He saw that she was very beautiful</span>, but in spite of this <span class="ambiguous">he did not like
                     her</span>, and he could not look at her without secretly shuddering.</p>
               <p>After <span class="ambiguous">he had lifted
                     the girl onto his horse</span>, <span class="ambiguous">the old woman showed
                     him the way</span>, and the king arrived again at his royal castle, where the wedding
                  was celebrated.</p>
               <p>The king had been married before, and by his first wife he had seven
                  children, six boys and one girl. He loved them
                  more than anything else in the world.</p>
               <p>Fearing that the stepmother might not treat them well, even do them harm, he took
                  them to a secluded castle which stood in the middle of a forest. It was so well hidden,
                  and the way was so difficult to find, that he himself would not have found it, if
                  a
                  wise woman had not given him a ball of magic
                  yarn. Whenever he threw it down in front of him, it would unwind itself and show him
                  the
                  way.</p>
               <p>However, the king went out to his dear children so often that <span class="ambiguous">the queen took notice of
                     his absence</span>. <span class="ambiguous">She was
                     curious</span> and <span class="ambiguous">wanted to know what he was doing out there all alone in the woods</span>. <span class="hostile">She gave a large sum
                     of money to his servants</span>, and <span class="ambiguous">they revealed the secret to her</span>. <span class="ambiguous">They also told her
                     about the ball of yarn which could point out the way all by itself</span>.</p>
               <p><span class="ambiguous">She did not rest</span> until <span class="ambiguous">she discovered where the king kept the
                     ball of yarn</span>. <span class="ambiguous">Then she made
                     some little shirts of white silk</span>. Having learned the art of witchcraft from
                  her mother, <span class="hostile">she sewed
                     a magic charm into each one of them</span>. Then one day when the king had ridden out
                  hunting, <span class="ambiguous">she took the little shirts
                     and went into the woods</span>. The ball of yarn showed her the way.</p>
               <p>The children, seeing that someone was approaching from afar, thought that their dear
                  father was coming to them. Full of joy, they ran to meet him. Then <span class="hostile">she threw one of the shirts over each of them</span>,
                  and when the shirts touched their bodies they were transformed into swans, and they
                  flew
                  away over the woods.</p>
               <p><span class="ambiguous">The queen went
                     home</span>
                  <span class="ambiguous">very pleased</span>, <span class="hostile">believing that she had gotten rid of her
                     stepchildren</span>. However, the girl had not
                  run out with her brothers, and the queen knew nothing about
                  her.</p>
               <p>The next day the king went to visit his children, but he found no one there but
                  the girl.</p>
               <p>"Where are your brothers?"
                  asked the king.</p>
               <p>"Oh, dear father,"
                  she answered, "they have gone
                  away and left me alone."</p>
               <p>Then <span class="ambiguous">she told
                     him that from her window she had seen how her brothers had flown away over the woods
                     as swans</span>. <span class="ambiguous">She showed him the feathers that they had dropped into the
                     courtyard</span>, and which <span class="ambiguous">she had gathered up</span>.</p>
               <p>The king mourned, but he did not think that the queen had done this
                  wicked deed. Fearing that the girl would be stolen away from him as
                  well, he wanted to take her away with him, but <span class="ambiguous">she was afraid of her stepmother</span> and
                  <span class="ambiguous">begged the king to let
                     her stay just this one more night in the castle in the woods</span>.</p>
               <p>The poor girl thought, "I can no longer stay here. I will go and look for my
                  brothers."</p>
               <p>And when night came <span class="ambiguous">she ran
                     away</span> and <span class="ambiguous">went
                     straight into the woods</span>. <span class="ambiguous">She walked the whole night long without stopping, and the next day as
                     well, until she was too tired to walk any further</span>.</p>
               <p>Then <span class="ambiguous">she saw a hunter's hut
                     and went inside</span>. <span class="ambiguous">She found a room with six little beds</span>, but <span class="ambiguous">she did not dare to get into one of them</span>.
                  Instead <span class="ambiguous">she crawled under
                     one of them</span> and <span class="ambiguous">lay down on the hard ground</span> where <span class="ambiguous">she intended to spend the night</span>.</p>
               <p>The sun was about to go down when <span class="ambiguous">she heard a rushing sound</span> and <span class="ambiguous">saw six swans fly in through the
                     window</span>. Landing on the floor, they blew on one another, and blew all their
                  feathers off. Then their swan-skins came off just like shirts. <span class="ambiguous">The girl looked at them and recognized her brothers</span>. <span class="benevolent">She was happy</span> and <span class="ambiguous">crawled out from beneath the
                     bed</span>. The brothers were no less happy to see their little sister, but their
                  happiness did not last long.</p>
               <p>"You cannot stay here,"
                  they said to her. "This is a
                  robbers' den. If they come home and find you, they will murder you."</p>
               <p>"Can't you protect
                  me?" asked the little sister.</p>
               <p>"No," they answered.
                  "We can take off our swan-skins
                  for only a quarter hour each evening. Only during that time do we have our human
                  forms. After that we are again transformed into swans."</p>
               <p><span class="ambiguous">Crying</span>, the little sister said, "Can you not be redeemed?"</p>
               <p>"Alas, no," they
                  answered.  "The conditions are too
                  difficult. You would not be allowed to speak or to laugh for six years, and in that
                  time you would have to sew together six little shirts from asters for us. And if a
                  single word were to come from your mouth, all your work would be
                  lost."</p>
               <p>After the brothers had said this, the quarter hour was over, and they flew out the
                  window
                  again as swans.</p>
               <p>Nevertheless, <span class="benevolent">the girl firmly resolved to redeem her brothers</span>, even if it
                  should cost her her life. <span class="ambiguous">She left the hunter's hut</span>, <span class="ambiguous">went to the middle of the woods</span>, <span class="ambiguous">seated herself in a tree</span>, and <span class="ambiguous">there spent the night</span>.
                  The next morning <span class="ambiguous">she went
                     out and gathered asters</span> and <span class="ambiguous">began to sew</span>. She could not speak with anyone, and <span class="ambiguous">she had no desire to
                     laugh</span>. <span class="ambiguous">She sat
                     there, looking only at her work</span>.</p>
               <p>After she had already spent a long time there it happened that the king of the land
                  was
                  hunting in these woods. His huntsmen came to the tree where the
                  girl was sitting.</p>
               <p><span class="ambiguous">They called to her</span>, saying,
                  "Who are you?" But
                  <span class="ambiguous">she did not
                     answer</span>.</p>
               <p>"Come down to us," they
                  said. "We will not harm
                  you."</p>
               <p><span class="ambiguous">She only shook her
                     head</span>. When they pressed her further with questions, <span class="ambiguous">she threw her golden necklace down to them, thinking
                     that this would satisfy them</span>. But they did not stop, so <span class="ambiguous">she then threw her belt down
                     to them</span>, and when this did not help, <span class="ambiguous">her garters, and then -- one thing at a time --
                     everything that she had on and could do without, until finally she had nothing left
                     but her shift</span>.</p>
               <p>The huntsmen, however, not letting themselves be dissuaded, climbed the tree, <span class="ambiguous">lifted
                     the girl down</span>, and took her to the king.</p>
               <p>The king asked, "Who are you? What
                  are you doing in that tree?"</p>
               <p>But <span class="ambiguous">she did not answer</span>.
                  <span class="ambiguous">He asked her in every language that he knew</span>, but <span class="ambiguous">she remained as speechless as a fish</span>. Because
                  <span class="ambiguous">she was so
                     beautiful</span>, the king's heart was touched, and <span class="benevolent">he fell deeply in
                     love with her</span>. <span class="benevolent">He put his cloak around her</span>, <span class="benevolent">lifted her onto
                     his horse in front of himself</span>, and <span class="benevolent">took her to his castle</span>. There
                  <span class="benevolent">he had her dressed in rich garments</span>, and <span class="benevolent">she glistened in her beauty like bright
                     daylight</span>, but no one could get a word from her.</p>
               <p>At the table <span class="benevolent">he seated her by his side</span>, and <span class="benevolent">her modest manners
                     and courtesy pleased him so much</span> that he said, "My desire is to marry her, and no one else in the
                  world."</p>
               <p>A few days later they were married.</p>
               <p>Now the king had a <span class="hostile">wicked
                     mother who was dissatisfied with this marriage</span> and <span class="hostile">spoke
                     ill of the young queen</span>. "Who knows," she said,
                  "where the
                  girl who cannot speak comes from? She is not worthy of a
                  king."</p>
               <p>A year later, after <span class="benevolent">the queen had brought her first child
                     into the world</span>, <span class="hostile">the old woman took it away from her</span>
                  while <span class="ambiguous">she was asleep</span>,
                  and <span class="hostile">smeared her mouth with blood</span>. Then <span class="hostile">she went to the king</span> and
                  <span class="hostile">accused her of being a cannibal</span>. The king could not believe this, and <span class="benevolent">would
                     not allow anyone to harm her</span>. <span class="ambiguous">She, however, sat the whole time sewing on the shirts</span>, and <span class="ambiguous">caring for nothing
                     else</span>.</p>
               <p>The next time, when <span class="ambiguous">she again
                     gave birth to a beautiful boy</span>, <span class="hostile">the deceitful mother-in-law did the same thing
                     again</span>, but the king could not bring himself to believe her
                  accusations.</p>
               <p>He said, "She is too pious and
                  good to do anything like that. If she were not speechless, and if she could defend
                  herself, her innocence would come to light."</p>
               <p>But when <span class="hostile">the old
                     woman stole away a newly born child for the third time</span>, and
                  <span class="hostile">accused the queen</span>, who <span class="ambiguous">did not defend herself with a single word</span>, <span class="hostile">the king
                     had no choice but to bring her to justice</span>, and she was sentenced to die by
                  fire.</p>
               <p>When the day came for the sentence to be carried out, it was also the last day of
                  the six
                  years during which she had not been permitted to speak or to laugh, and <span class="benevolent">she had
                     thus delivered her dear brothers from the magic curse</span>. The six shirts were
                  finished. Only the left sleeve of the last one was missing. When she was led to the
                  stake, <span class="ambiguous">she laid the shirts
                     on her arm</span>. <span class="ambiguous">Standing there</span>, as the fire was about to be lighted, <span class="ambiguous">she looked around</span>, and
                  six swans came flying through the air. Seeing that their redemption was near, <span class="benevolent">her heart leapt with
                     joy</span>.</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">The
                     swans rushed towards her</span>, <span class="benevolent">swooping down so that she could throw the
                     shirts over them</span>. As soon as the shirts touched them their swan-skins fell
                  off, and her brothers stood before her in their own bodies, vigorous and handsome.
                  However, the youngest was missing his left arm. In its place he had a swan's wing.</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">They
                     embraced and kissed one another</span>. Then <span class="benevolent">the
                     queen went to the king</span>, who was greatly moved, and <span class="ambiguous">she began to speak</span>,
                  saying, "Dearest husband, now
                  I may speak and reveal to you that I am innocent, and falsely
                  accused."</p>
               <p>Then <span class="benevolent">she told him of the treachery of the old woman who had
                     taken away their three children and hidden them</span>.</p>
               <p>Then to the king's great joy they were brought forth. As a punishment, the wicked
                  mother-in-law
                  <span class="hostile">was tied to the stake and
                     burned to ashes</span>. But the king and <span class="benevolent">the queen with her
                     six brothers lived many long years in happiness and peace</span>.</p>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-14">
               <p>Ein König jagte in einem großen Wald, verirrte sich und konnte keinen Ausgang finden,
                  da
                  kam er endlich zu einer Hexe, die bat er, sie
                  mögte ihn wieder heraus leiten. Die Hexe aber antwortete, das
                  geschähe nimmermehr, er müsse darin bleiben und sein Leben verlieren, und nur das
                  eine
                  könne ihn erretten, daß er ihre Tochter heirathe.
                  Dem König war sein Leben lieb, und in der Angst sagte er ja; die Hexe
                  brachte ihm das Mädchen, es war jung und
                  schön, er konnte es aber nicht ohne Grau- sen und ohne eine
                  heimliche Furcht ansehen; doch wollte er, was er versprochen hatte, hal- ten. Die
                  Alte führte dann beide auf den rech- ten Weg, und daheim ward die
                  Hexentochter seine Gemahlin. Der König aber
                  hatte noch sieben Kinder von seiner ersten Frau, sechs Buben und
                  ein Mädchen, und weil er fürch- tete, es könne
                  ihnen von der Stiefmutter ein Leids angethan werden,
                  brachte er sie in ein Schloß, das er mitten in einem Walde stehen hatte. Es stand
                  so
                  verborgen, daß niemand den Weg dahin wußte, und er selber hätte ihn nicht gefunden,
                  wenn
                  ihm nicht eine weise Frau einen Knauel von Garn gegeben, wenn er den vor sich warf,
                  wickelte er sich auf und zeigte ihm den Weg. Weil aber der König seine Kin- der gar
                  lieb
                  hatte, ging er oft hinaus, da ward die Königin neugierig,
                  und wollte wissen, was der König so viel allein in dem Wald zu thun habe; sie forschte die Diener aus, und diese ver- riethen ihr das ganze
                  Geheimniß. Das erste war nun, daß sie sich mit List
                  den Knauel ver- schaffte, dann nahm sie sieben kleine
                  Hemdchen, und ging hinaus in den Wald. Der Knauel zeigte ihr den Weg, und als die sechs kleinen Prinzen sie von weitem kommen sahen, freuten sie sich, meinten ihr Vater käm
                  und liefen her- aus auf sie zu. Da <span class="hostile">warf sie über jeden ein Hemdchen</span>, und kaum hatte es ihren Leib be-
                  rührt, da waren sie in Schwäne verwandelt, hoben sich auf in die Luft und flogen davon.
                  Sie meinte nun sie hätte alle Stiefkinder weg- geschafft, und ging wieder heim, und so
                  war das Mädchen, das in seiner
                  Kammer geblieben war, errettet. Am andern Tag kam der König in das Waldschloß, da
                  erzählte es ihm, was ge- schehen war, und zeigte ihm
                  noch die Schwa- nenfedern, die von ihren sechs Brüdern auf den Hof gefallen waren.
                  Der
                  König erschrack, gedachte aber nimmermehr, daß die Königin die böse
                  That vollbracht, und weil er besorgte, die Prinzessin möge ihm
                  auch geraubt werden, wollte er sie mit sich nach Haus nehmen. Sie fürchtete sich aber vor ihrer Stiefmutter und
                  bat ihn, er mögte sie nur noch die Nacht in dem Schloß lassen;
                  in der Nacht aber entfloh sie, und gerade zu in den Wald hinein.</p>
               <p>Als sie auch den ganzen Tag bis zum Abend
                  fortgegangen war, kam sie zu einer Wild- hütte. Sie stieg hinauf und fand eine Stube mit sechs kleinen Betten; weil
                  sie nun müde war, legte sie sich unter eins und wollte da die Nacht zubringen. Bei
                  Sonnenuntergang aber kamen sechs Schwäne durch das Fenster herein- geflogen, setzten
                  sich auf den Boden und bliesen einander an, und bliesen sich alle Federn ab, wie ein
                  Tuch sich abstreift, und da waren es ihre sechs Brüder. Sie kroch unter dem Bett hervor, und die Brüder waren beides erfreut
                  und betrübt, sie zu sehen: „du kannst hier nicht bleiben, sagten sie, das ist eine
                  Räuberherberg, wenn die Räuber von ihrem Zuge heimkom- men, dann wohnen sie hier.
                  Alle Abend kön- nen wir uns aber eine Viertelstunde lang die Schwanenhaut gänzlich
                  abblasen, und auf so lange unsere menschliche Gestalt haben, hernach aber ist es
                  wieder vorbei. Wenn du uns erlösen willst, mußt du in sechs Jahren sechs Hemd- lein aus Sternblumen zusammennähen,
                  wäh- rend der Zeit aber darfst du nicht
                  sprechen und nicht lachen, sonst ist alle Arbeit verloren.“ Und als die
                  Brüder das gesprochen hatten, war die Viertelstunde herum, und sie waren wieder in
                  Schwäne verwandelt.</p>
               <p>Am andern Morgen aber sammelte sich das Mädchen
                  Sternblumen, setzte sich dann auf einen hohen Baum und fing an zu nähen: es redete auch kein Wort und lachte nicht, sondern sahe nur auf seine
                  Arbeit. Auf eine Zeit jagte der König, dem das Land gehörte in dem Wald, und seine
                  Jäger
                  kamen zu dem Baum, auf welchem es saß. Sie riefen
                  ihm zu, es sollte herabsteigen, weil es ihnen nun nicht antwor- ten durfte, wollte es sie mit Geschenken befrie- digen, und warf ihnen seine goldene
                  Halskette herab. Sie riefen aber noch immer, da warf es seinen Gürtel,
                  als auch dies nichts half sei- ne Strumpfbänder endlich, alles, was es ent- behren konnte, herunter, so daß es nichts mehr als sein Hemdlein anbehielt. Den Jägern war aber das
                  alles nicht genug, sie stiegen auf den Baum, hoben es herab und
                  brachten es mir Gewalt zum König. Der König war verwun-
                  dert über seine Schönheit, wickelte es in seinen
                  Mantel, setzte es vor sich aufs Pferd, und führte es nach Haus, und ob es gleich stumm
                  war, liebte er es doch von Herzen, und es ward seine Gemahlin. Des Königs Mutter aber war böse
                  darüber, sprach schlecht von ihr: niemand wisse, woher die Dirne gekommen, und sie sey des Königs
                  unwerth. Als sie nun den ersten Prinzen zur Welt brachte,
                  nahm die Schwiegermutter ihn weg, <span class="hostile">bestrich ihr den Mund
                     mit Blut</span> und gab dann bei dem König vor, die Königin habe ihr
                  eigen Kind gefressen, und sey eine Zauberin. Der König
                  aber, aus großer Liebe, wollte es nicht glauben; darnach als sie den zweiten Prinzen gebar, übte die gottlose Schwiegermutter denselben Betrug, und <span class="hostile">klagte sie wieder beim König an</span>, und weil sie nicht reden durfte, sondern immer stumm saß und an den sechs
                  Hemdern arbeitete, so konnte sie nichts mehr erretten, und <span class="hostile">sie ward zum Feuer verdammt</span>. Der Tag kam heran, wo das
                  Urtheil sollte vollzogen werden, es war gerade der letzte Tag von den sechs Jahren,
                  und
                  sie war mit den sechs Hemdern fertig geworden,
                  nur an einem fehlte der linke Ermel. Wie sie nun zum
                  Scheiterhaufen geführt wurde, nahm sie die sechs Hemder mit sich, und wie sie oben stand und eben das Feuer sollte angesteckt wer- den, sah
                  sie sechs Schwäne durch die Luft da- her
                  ziehen, und über ihr sich herabsenken. Da <span class="benevolent">warf sie die Hemdlein hinauf</span>, die fielen über die Schwäne hin, und
                  kaum waren sie davon berührt, so fiel ihre Schwanenhaut ab, und die sechs Brüder standen
                  leibhaftig vor ihr, nur dem sechsten fehlte der linke Arm, und er hatte dafür einen
                  Schwanenflügel auf dem Rücken. Da war ihr auch die
                  Sprache wiedergegeben, und sie erzählte, wie die Schwiegermutter
                  sie so boshaft verläumdet, dafür ward <span class="hostile">diese auf den Scheiterhaufen gebracht und verbrannt</span>, <span class="benevolent">sie aber lebte lange mit dem König und ihren sechs Brüdern in
                     Freuden.</span></p>
            </div>
         </div>
      </main>
      <!--#include virtual="footer.xhtml" --></body>
</html>