<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>The Twelve Brothers</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css"/>
      <link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/jpg" href="red-riding-hood.png"/>
   </head>
   <body><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
      <main><!--#include virtual="storynav.xhtml" -->
         <h1>The Twelve Brothers</h1>
         <div class="grid-story">
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-11">English Version</div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-13">German Version</div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-12">
               <p>Once upon a time there were a king and a queen. They <span class="benevolent">lived happily together</span> and
                  <span class="ambiguous">had twelve children</span>,
                  all boys. One day the king said to his wife, "If our thirteenth child, which you are
                  soon going to bring into the world, is a girl, then the twelve others shall die,
                  so that her wealth may be great, and so that she alone may inherit the
                  kingdom."</p>
               <p>Indeed, he had twelve coffins made. They were filled with wood shavings and each was
                  fitted with a coffin pillow. He had them put in a locked room, and <span class="ambiguous">gave the key to the
                     queen</span>, <span class="hostile">ordering her to tell no one about them</span>.</p>
               <p><span class="ambiguous">The mother sat and mourned</span> the entire day, until the youngest
                  son -- who was always with her, and who was named Benjamin after the Bible -- said
                  to her, "Dear mother, why are you so sad?"</p>
               <p>"Dearest child," she
                  answered, "I cannot tell
                  you."</p>
               <p>However, <span class="ambiguous">he
                     would not leave her in peace</span>, until <span class="ambiguous">she unlocked the room</span> and <span class="ambiguous">showed him the coffins</span>, already filled
                  with wood shavings.</p>
               <p>Then she said, "My dearest
                  Benjamin, your father had these coffins made for you and your eleven brothers.
                  If I bring a girl into the world, you are all to be killed and buried in
                  them."</p>
               <p>As <span class="ambiguous">she spoke and cried</span>, <span class="benevolent">her son
                     comforted her</span>, saying, "Don't cry, dear mother. We will take care of ourselves
                  and run away."</p>
               <p>Then she said, Go out into the
                  woods with your eleven brothers. One of you should climb the highest tree that
                  you can find. Keep watch there and look toward the castle tower. If I give birth
                  to a little son, I will raise a white flag. If I give birth to a little
                  daughter, I will raise a red flag, and then you should escape as fast as you
                  can, and may God protect you. I will get up every night and pray for you, in the
                  winter that you may warm yourselves near a fire, and in the summer that you may
                  not suffer from the heat."</p>
               <p>After <span class="benevolent">she had blessed her children</span>, they went out into the woods. One after the
                  other of them kept watch, sitting atop the highest oak tree and looking toward the
                  tower. After eleven days had passed, and it was Benjamin's turn, he saw that a flag
                  had been raised. It was not the white one, but instead the red blood-flag, decreeing
                  that they all were to die.</p>
               <p>When the boys heard this they became angry and cried out, "Are we to suffer death for the
                  sake of a girl! We swear that we will take revenge. Wherever we find a girl, her
                  red blood shall flow."</p>
               <p>Then they went deeper into the woods, and in its middle, where it was darkest, they
                  found a little bewitched house that was empty.</p>
               <p>They said, "We
                  will live here. You, Benjamin, you are the youngest and weakest. You shall stay
                  at home and keep house. We others will go and get things to eat."</p>
               <p>Thus they went into the woods and shot rabbits, wild deer, birds, and doves, and
                  whatever they could eat. These they brought to Benjamin, and he had to prepare them
                  to satisfy their hunger. They lived together in this little house for ten years, but
                  the time passed quickly for them.</p>
               <p>The little daughter that their mother, the queen, had
                  given birth to was now grown up. She had a good heart, a beautiful
                  face, and a golden star on her forehead.</p>
               <p>Once on a large washday <span class="ambiguous">she saw
                     twelve men's shirts in the laundry</span> and asked her mother, "Whose are
                  these twelve shirts? They are much too small for father."</p>
               <p>The
                  queen answered with a heavy heart, "Dear child, they belong to your twelve
                  brothers."</p>
               <p>The girl said, "Where are my twelve brothers? I have never even heard of them."</p>
               <p>She answered, "Only God knows where
                  they are. They are wandering about in the world."</p>
               <p>Then <span class="ambiguous">she took
                     the girl</span>, <span class="ambiguous">unlocked the room for her</span>, and <span class="ambiguous">showed her the twelve
                     coffins</span> with the wood shavings and the coffin pillows.</p>
               <p>"These coffins," she
                  said, "were intended for your
                  brothers, but they secretly ran away before you were born," and <span class="ambiguous">she told her
                     how everything had happened</span>.</p>
               <p>Then the girl said, "Dear mother, don't cry. I will go and look for my
                  brothers."</p>
               <p>Then <span class="ambiguous">she took the twelve
                     shirts</span> and <span class="ambiguous">went
                     forth into the great woods</span>. <span class="ambiguous">She walked the entire day</span>, in the evening <span class="ambiguous">coming to the bewitched little
                     house</span>.</p>
               <p><span class="ambiguous">She went inside</span> and <span class="ambiguous">found a young lad</span>, who
                  asked, "Where do you come from,
                  and where are you going?"</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">He was
                     astounded that she was so beautiful</span>, that <span class="ambiguous">she was wearing royal clothing</span>, and that
                  <span class="ambiguous">she had a star on her
                     forehead</span>.</p>
               <p>"I am a
                  princess and <span class="ambiguous">am looking for my twelve brothers</span>. I will walk on
                  as long as the sky is blue, until I find them."
                  <span class="ambiguous">She also
                     showed him the twelve shirts that belonged to them</span>.</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">Benjamin
                     saw that it was his sister</span>, and said, "I am Benjamin, your youngest brother."</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">She began to cry for
                     joy</span>, and Benjamin did so as well. <span class="benevolent">They kissed and embraced one another
                     with great love</span>.</p>
               <p>Then he said, "Dear sister, I must warn you that we have agreed that every girl
                  whom we meet must die."</p>
               <p>She said,  "I will gladly die,
                  if I can thus redeem my twelve brothers."</p>
               <p>"No," he answered,
                  "you shall not die. Sit
                  under this tub until our eleven brothers come, and I will make it right with
                  them."</p>
               <p>She did this, and when night fell they came home from the hunt. As they sat at the
                  table eating, they asked, "What is new?"</p>
               <p>Benjamin said, "Don't you know
                  anything?"</p>
               <p>"No,"
                  they answered.</p>
               <p>He continued speaking, "You have
                  been in the woods while I stayed at home, but I know more than you
                  do."</p>
               <p>"Then tell
                  us," they shouted.</p>
               <p>He answered, "If you will promise
                  me that the next girl we meet shall not be killed."</p>
               <p>"Yes," they all shouted. "We will show her
                  mercy. Just tell us."</p>
               <p>Then he said, "Our sister is
                  here," and lifted up the tub. <span class="ambiguous">The princess came forth</span> in her royal clothing and with
                  the golden star on her forehead, so beautiful, delicate, and fine.</p>
               <p><span class="benevolent">They all rejoiced, falling around her neck and kissing her</span>,
                  and <span class="benevolent">they loved her with all their hearts</span>.</p>
               <p><span class="ambiguous">Now she stayed at home with
                     Benjamin</span> and <span class="ambiguous">helped him with the work</span>. The eleven went into the
                  woods and captured wild game, deer, birds, and doves, so they would have something
                  to eat. Their <span class="ambiguous">sister and Benjamin prepared it
                     all</span>. <span class="ambiguous">They gathered
                     wood</span> for cooking, herbs for the stew, and <span class="ambiguous">put the pot onto the fire</span> so a meal was
                  always ready when the eleven came home. <span class="ambiguous">She also kept the house in order</span>, and <span class="ambiguous">made up the beds white and clean</span>. The
                  brothers were always satisfied, and they lived happily with her.</p>
               <p>One time the two of them <span class="ambiguous">had
                     prepared a good meal at home</span>, and so <span class="ambiguous">they sat together</span> and <span class="ambiguous">ate and drank</span> and <span class="ambiguous">were ever so happy</span>. Now there was a little
                  garden next to the bewitched house, and in it there were twelve lilies, the kind
                  that are called "students." Wanting to bring some pleasure to her brothers, <span class="ambiguous">she picked the twelve
                     flowers</span>, intending to give one to each of them when they were eating. But
                  in the same instant that she picked the flowers, the twelve brothers were
                  transformed into twelve ravens, and they flew away above the woods. The house and
                  the garden disappeared as well.</p>
               <p>Now the poor girl was alone in the wild woods. Looking
                  around, <span class="ambiguous">she saw an old women standing next to
                     her</span>.</p>
               <p>The old woman said, "My
                  child, what have you done?" Why did you not leave the twelve
                  white flowers standing? Those were your brothers, and now they have been
                  transformed into ravens forever."</p>
               <p>The girl said, <span class="ambiguous">crying</span>, "Is there no way to redeem them?"</p>
               <p>"No," said the
                  old woman, "There is only one way in the world, and it is so
                  difficult that you will never redeem them. You must remain silent for seven
                  whole years, neither speaking nor laughing. If you speak a single word, even if
                  all but one hour of the seven years has passed, then it will all be for nothing,
                  and your brothers will be killed by that one word."</p>
               <p>Then the girl said in her heart, "I know for sure that I will redeem
                  my brothers."</p>
               <p><span class="ambiguous">She went and found a tall
                     tree</span> and <span class="ambiguous">climbed to its top</span>, where <span class="ambiguous">she sat and span</span>, without speaking and
                  without laughing.</p>
               <p>Now it came to pass that a king was hunting in these woods. He had a large greyhound
                  that ran to the tree where <span class="ambiguous">the girl was sitting</span>. It jumped
                  about, yelping and barking up the tree. The king came, <span class="benevolent">saw the beautiful
                     princess</span> with the golden star on her forehead, and <span class="benevolent">was so enchanted by her
                     beauty</span> that <span class="benevolent">he shouted up to her, asking her to become his wife</span>.
                  <span class="ambiguous">She gave him no
                     answer</span>, but <span class="ambiguous">nodded
                     with her head</span>. Then he himself climbed the tree, <span class="benevolent">carried her down</span>,
                  <span class="benevolent">set
                     her on his horse</span>, and <span class="benevolent">took her home with him</span>.</p>
               <p>Their wedding was celebrated with great pomp and joy, but <span class="ambiguous">the bride neither
                     spoke nor laughed</span>.</p>
               <p>After they had lived a few years happily together, the king's
                  mother, who <span class="hostile">was a wicked woman</span>, <span class="hostile">began to slander the
                     young queen</span>, saying to the king, "You have brought home a
                  common beggar woman for yourself. Who knows what kind of godless things she is
                  secretly doing. Even if she is a mute and cannot speak, she could at least
                  laugh. Anyone who does not laugh has an evil conscience."</p>
               <p>At first the king did not want to believe this, but the old
                  woman kept it up so long, <span class="hostile">accusing her of so many wicked
                     things</span>, that the king finally let himself be convinced, and <span class="hostile">he
                     sentenced her to death</span>.</p>
               <p>A great fire was lit in the courtyard, where she was to be burned to death. The king
                  stood upstairs at his window, looking on with crying eyes, for <span class="ambiguous">he still
                     loved her dearly</span>. She had already been bound to the stake, and the fire
                  was licking at her clothing with its red tongues, when the last moment of the seven
                  years passed.</p>
               <p>A whirring sound was heard in the air, and twelve ravens approached, landing
                  together. As they touched the earth, <span class="benevolent">it was her twelve brothers, whom
                     she had redeemed</span>. They ripped the fire apart, put out the flames, and <span class="benevolent">freed their sister</span>, <span class="benevolent">kissing and embracing her</span>.</p>
               <p>Now that she could open her mouth and speak, <span class="benevolent">she told the king why she had remained
                     silent and had never laughed</span>.</p>
               <p>The king rejoiced to hear that she was innocent, and they all lived happily together
                  until they died. The <span class="ambiguous">wicked stepmother was brought
                     before the court and placed in a barrel filled with boiling oil and poisonous
                     snakes</span>, and <span class="ambiguous">she died an evil death</span>.</p>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-item grid-item-14">
               <p>Es war einmal ein König, der hatte zwölf Kinder, das waren lauter Buben, er wollte
                  auch kein Mädchen haben und sagte zur Köni- gin: „wenn das dreizehnte Kind, das du zur Welt bringst, ein
                  Mädchen ist, so laß ich die zwölf andern tödten, ists aber auch ein Bube, dann
                  sollen sie alle miteinander leben bleiben.“ — Die Königin gedachte es ihm auszureden. Der König wollte aber nichts
                  weiter hören: „wenns so ist, wie
                  ich gesagt habe, so müssen sie ster- ben, lieber hau' ich ihnen selber den Kopf
                  ab, als daß ein Mädchen darunter wäre.“</p>
               <p>Da war die Königin traurig, denn sie hat- te ihre Söhne von
                  Herzen lieb und wußte nicht, wie sie zu retten waren. Endlich
                  ging sie zu dem jüngsten, den sie vor allen lieb hatte,
                  of- fenbarte ihm, was der König beschlossen, und sagte: „allerliebstes Kind, geh du mit deinen eilf Brüdern
                  hinaus in den Wald, da bleibt und kommt nicht nach Haus, einer von euch aber
                  halte immer Wacht auf einem Baum und sehe nach dem Thurm hier, wenn ich ein
                  Söhn- chen zur Welt bringe, will ich obenauf eine weiße Fahne stecken, ists aber
                  ein Töchterchen eine rothe, und wenn ihr das seht, dann rettet euch, flieht in
                  die weite Welt, und der liebe Gott behüt euch. Alle Nacht will ich aufste- hen
                  und für euch beten, wenns kalt ist im Win- ter, daß ihr nicht friert und ein
                  warmes Feuer vor euch brennt, und wenns heiß ist im Som- mer, daß ihr in einem
                  kühlen Walde ruht und schlaft.“</p>
               <p>So gesegnete sie die Kinder und sie gingen fort in den Wald. Oft guckten sie nach
                  dem
                  Thurm, und einer mußte beständig auf einer hohen Eiche sitzen und Acht haben. Bald
                  auch wurde eine Fahne aufgesteckt, es war aber nicht die weiße, sondern die rothe
                  Blutfahne, die ih- nen den Untergang drohte. Wie die Buben sie erblickten, wurden
                  sie alle zornig und riefen: „sollen wir eines Mädchens willen das Leben verlieren!“ da schwuren
                  sie zusammen, mitten in dem Wald zu bleiben, und aufzupassen, wenn sich ein Mädchen
                  sehen ließ, wollten sie es ohne Gnade tödten.</p>
               <p>Darauf suchten sie eine Höhle, wo der Wald am dunkelsten war, wo sie wohnten. Alle
                  Morgen zogen elf hinaus auf die Jagd, einer mußte aber zu Haus bleiben, kochen, und
                  den Haushalt führen. Jedes Mädchen aber, das den eilfen begegnete, war ohne
                  Barmherzigkeit verloren; das dauerte viele Jahre.</p>
               <p>Das Schwesterchen zu Haus aber ward groß und blieb
                  das einzige Kind. Einmal hat- te es große Wäsche,
                  darunter waren auch zwölf Mannshemden. „Für wen sind denn diese Hemder, fragte die Prinzessin, meinem Vater sind sie doch viel zu
                  klein,“ da erzählte ihr die Wäscherin,
                  daß sie zwölf Brüder gehabt hätte, die wären heimlich fortgegangen, kein Mensch
                  wisse wohin, weil sie der König habe wollen tödten lassen, und diesen zwölf Brüdern
                  gehör- ten diese zwölf Hemder. Das Schwesterchen
                  verwunderte sich, daß ihm niemals von seinen zwölf Brüdern etwas zu
                  Ohren gekommen und wie es Nachmittags auf
                  der Wiese saß und die Wäsche bleichte, da fielen ihm die Worte der
                  Wäscherin wieder ein, und es ward nachdenk-
                  sam, und endlich stieg es auf, nahm die
                  zwölf Hemder und ging in den Wald hinein, wo sei- ne Brüder lebten.</p>
               <p>Das Schwesterchen kam gerade zu der Höhle, wo sie
                  ihre Wohnung hatten. Die eilf waren auf der Jagd und nur ein ein- ziger daheim, der
                  kochen mußte. Wie der das Mädchen erblickte,
                  <span class="hostile">faßte er
                     es gleich</span>, und <span class="hostile">holte sein Schwert</span>:
                  „knie nieder, dein ro- thes Blut muß den Augenblick fließen.“ Das
                  Mädchen aber bat ihn: „lieber Herr, laßt mich leben, ich
                  will bei euch bleiben und euch redlich dienen, ich will kochen und den Haushalt
                  füh- ren.“ Es war gerade der jüngste Bruder, den erbarmte die
                  Schönheit des Mädchens und er <span class="benevolent">schenkte ihr das Leben</span>. Wie die eilfe nach Haus kamen und sich
                  verwunderten, ein Mädchen le- bendig in der Höhle zu finden,
                  sagte er zu ih- nen: „liebe
                  Brüder, dies Mädchen ist in die Höhle gekommen, und wie
                  ich es niederhauen wollte, da bat es so sehr um sein Leben, es wollt uns
                  treu dienen und den Haushalt füh- ren, daß ichs ihm geschenkt habe.“ Die an- dern gedachten, daß
                  ihnen das vortheilhaft wä- re und daß sie nun alle zwölf auf die Jagd ausgehen
                  könnten, und warens zufrieden. Da zeigte es ihnen die zwölf
                  Hemdlein und sagte, es wär' ihre Schwester; darüber freuten sie sich alle, und waren
                  froh, daß sie es nicht getödtet hatten.</p>
               <p>Das Schwesterchen übernahm nun den Haushalt, und
                  wenn die Brüder auf der Jagd waren, sammelte es Holz und Kräuter,
                  stellte zu am Feuer, deckte die Bettlein hübsch weiß und rein, und thät alles
                  unverdrossen und flei- ßig. Einmal geschah es, daß es fertig war mit aller Arbeit, da ging es in den Wald spazieren. Es kam an einen
                  Platz, wo zwölf schöne hohe, weiße Lilien standen, und weil sie ihr so wohl gefielen, <span class="ambiguous">brach sie alle
                     miteinander ab</span>. Kaum aber war das geschehen, so stand eine alte Frau vor ihr: „ach meine Tochter, sagte sie, warum hast du die zwölf
                  Studentenblumen nicht ste- hen lassen! das sind deine zwölf Brüder, die sind nun
                  alle in Raben verwandelt worden und sind verloren auf ewig.“ Das
                  Schwesterchen fing an zu weinen, „ach!“ sagte es, „giebts
                  denn kein Mittel sie zu erlösen?“
                  „Nein, es ist kein Mittel auf
                  der Welt, als ein einziges, das ist so schwer, das du sie nicht damit befreien wirst: du mußt zwölf ganzer Jahr stumm seyn, sprichst du ein einziges Wort, und es fehlt nur eine Stunde daran, so
                  ist alles umsonst und deine Brüder sind in dem Augenblick todt.“</p>
               <p>Das Schwesterchen setzte sich da auf einen hohen
                  Baum im Wald und spann und wollte zwölf Jahre stumm sitzen, um seine Brüder zu
                  erlösen. Es geschah aber, daß der König auf einer Jagd
                  durch den Wald ritt, und als er an dem Baum vorbei kam, stand sein Hund still und
                  bellte. Der König hielt nun, sah hin- auf und war ganz verwundert über die Schön-
                  heit der Prinzessin. Er rief ihr zu, ob sie sei- ne Gemahlin
                  werden wollte. Sie schwieg aber still und nickte nur ein wenig
                  mit dem Kopf. Da stieg der König selber hinauf und
                  <span class="benevolent">hob
                     sie herunter</span>, <span class="benevolent">setzte sie vor sich auf sein Pferd</span> und <span class="benevolent">brachte sie heim in sein Schloß</span>, wo die Hochzeit prächtig
                  gehalten ward. Die Prin- zessin sprach aber niemals ein Wort und
                  der König glaubte sie sey stumm. Doch hätten sie vergnügt mit einander gelebt, wenn
                  nicht die Mutter des Königs gewesen wäre, die fing an
                  die Königin bei ihrem Sohn zu verläum- den:
                  „es ist ein gemeines
                  Bettelmädchen, das du aus der Fremde
                  mitgebracht hast, die hin- ter deinem Rücken die schändlichsten Dinge
                  treibt.“ Weil die Königin nun sich nicht
                  ver- theidigen konnte, ließ sich der König verführen, und glaubte ihr endlich und verurtheilte sie zum Tod. Da ward ein
                  großes Feuer angemacht im Hof, darin sollte sie verbrannt werden.
                  Schon stand sie in den Flammen und die spiel- ten an ihrem
                  Kleide; da war eben die letzte Minute von den zwölf Jahren verflossen, man hörte in
                  der Luft ein Geräusch, und es kamen zwölf Raben hergeflogen und ließen sich nieder.
                  Wie sie die Erde berührten, waren es zwölf schöne Prinzen, die rissen das Feuer von
                  ein- ander und <span class="benevolent">führten ihre
                     Schwester heraus</span>. Da sprach
                  sie ihr erstes Wort wieder und sagte dem König
                  alles, wie es zugegangen und sie die zwölf Brüder habe erlösen müssen; und sie waren
                  alle vergnügt, daß es so wohl gewor- den war.</p>
               <p>Was sollten sie mit der bösen Stiefmutter
                  anfangen; sie <span class="hostile">ward in ein Faß gesteckt von sie- dendem Oehl und von
                     giftigen Schlangen an- gefüllt</span>, und starb da eines bösen Todes.</p>
            </div>
         </div>
      </main>
      <!--#include virtual="footer.xhtml" --></body>
</html>